GO Blog | EF GO BlogThe latest on travel, languages and culture by EF Education First
Free Brochure
Topics
Back
Topics

    Language learning
    Culture
    Travel
    Career
    Student life
    Student stories 

Free Brochure

    Language learning
    Culture
    Travel
    Career
    Student life
    Student stories 

10   for English learners that will make you love reading
By Kat
in Culture· 5 min read
Global Site - English
Share
10   for English learners that will make you love reading

“If you don’t like to read, you haven’t found the right book.” – J.K. Rowling

Reading in another language is a dream for many. It takes perseverance and patience, but once you get started, it opens up a whole new world of language and your vocabulary will expand rapidly.

If you’re just getting started reading in English, a children's book or a comic book are a great place to start. You’ll quickly gain the confidence you need to move up to the next level. Then, you might like to check out the ‘English Readers’ versions of novels that have been rewritten in slightly simpler English.

When you’re ready to start a proper English novel, it’s important to pick a genre and theme you actually enjoy. This will keep you hooked, making it easier to push through the challenge of reading in another language.

So check out our list of top ten   for English learners, as recommended to you by a true bookworm! They vary in genre, length and theme, but they are all great stories that will make you fall in love with reading.
1. The No.1 Ladies’ Detective Agency by Alexander McCall Smith

Detective novels are a great genre to try as they will keep you hooked. We love   by Alexander McCall Smith as the language is relatively simple, the stories are always gripping, and the characters are hilarious! If you like this first book, there are plenty more in the series to keep you going.
2. The Fault in Our Stars by John Green

Romantic, witty and humorous, yet very sad, this is a book for hopeless romantics. Follow the love story between Hazel and Augustus who meet at a cancer support group for teens. The language is youthful and edgy, making it an engaging and lively read, and you will probably learn some new metaphors along the way!
3. Harry Potter by J.K. Rowling

Harry Potter   are great for English learners as Rowling doesn’t use complicated grammar or vocabulary so you'll be able to understand most of the story. Or if you’ve already read the   in your native language, then you’ll find reading Harry Potter less of a chore and more relaxing. The first book isn’t too big, so it’s a great place to start and build your English reading confidence.
4. The Thursday Murder Club by Richard Osman

This hilarious book follows a group of retirees who like to investigate unsolved crimes. It’s funny, lighthearted, and the authentic British dialogue really feels like you’re listening to your grandmother speak.
5. Nine Perfect Strangers by Liane Moriarty

This bestseller takes place in a luxury health retreat in the Australian countryside, as nine strangers come together to deal with their issues, but end up facing many new ones. With a lot of dialogue between the characters, it’s a great way to get used to the typical Australian manner of speaking. It’s since been turned into a TV show, so once you’ve finished the book, you can binge on the series too.
6. Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine by Gail Honeyman

Funny, touching and heartwarming, this popular book is the story of an ordinary office worker who leads a very boring and routine existence, surviving on frozen pizza. The story is told from Eleanor's point of view, as she learns to grow and adapt. This book will make you feel all the emotions and you won’t want it to end.

Test your English in minutes
Learn more
7. Daisy Jones & the Six by Taylor Jenkins Reid

Follow the whirlwind life of singer Daisy Jones and her band members as they retell the story of their rise to fame as rock stars. Written in a unique interview style, this makes the story engaging, intriguing and a great way to learn through dialogue. A must read for music fans!
8. The Editor by Steven Rowley

A mix of American history and a modern day storyline, this moving book tells the story of a struggling author who finally gets picked up by an editor – and it’s none other than first lady Jackie Kennedy Onassis. You’ll fall in love with the characters and the language is beautiful and lyrical. You might even shed a tear or two by the end!
Get the latest on travel, languages and culture in the GO newsletter
Sign me up
9. The House on Mango Street by Sandra Cisneros

This book is often studied in English classes in schools and universities in the United States. It tells the story of a 12-year-old Mexican-American girl as she grows up and adjusts to life in the US through short stories. At just 103 pages, the diary style of writing lends itself to simple language, and you will be able to learn a lot of day to day vocabulary through this book.
10. James and the Giant Peach by Roald Dahl

The oldest book in our list, but the simple yet clever storyline makes this a wonderful read for all English levels. Simple grammar and vocabulary will make it easy for readers to follow along without having to pull out their dictionary. Once you’ve finished this book, try Dahl’s other  , the Fantastic Mr Fox or Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Tags: Language learning, Culture, English,  Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

No, take me to settings
  Homepage

    Skip to content
    Accessibility Help

Sign in

    Notifications

    Home

News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize

    More menu

Search  

  News

    Home
    Cost of Living
    War in Ukraine
    Climate
    UK
    World
    Business
    Politics
    Culture
    Tech

More

    World
    Africa
    Asia
    Australia
    Europe
    Latin America
    Middle East
    US & Canada

‘Doctors fitted a contraceptive coil without my consent’

    Published

    8 December 2022

Bebaine
Image caption,
Bebiane was struggling to fall pregnant before the coil was discovered inside her
By Elaine Jung
  World Service

Thousands of women in Greenland, including some as young as 12, had a contraceptive device implanted in their womb - often without consent - as part of a Danish campaign to control Greenland's growing Inuit population in the 60s and 70s.

The Danish government has announced an independent investigation into this so-called "Coil Campaign".

But the   has gathered accounts from women about recent involuntary contraception, amid growing calls for the investigation to go further.
Short presentational grey line

When Bebiane was 21 years old, she went to have a coil fitted - only to hear the shocking news that there was already one inside her.

"I remember the tears rolling down my cheeks, and I told them that I couldn't understand how I already had a coil in me… How could I not remember when I had it put in?"

Bebiane believes the only time the coil could have been inserted without her knowing was when she had an abortion at the age of 16, in the early 2000's.

For the next four years she suffered from crippling spells of abdominal pain so severe that they left her unable to climb stairs.

"I went to the hospital so many times and they didn't know what was wrong with me… [The pain] came when I had my period, but it also came when I didn't have my period."

She wanted to get pregnant, but had still not conceived after more than a year.

"Every time I would get my period… I would cry," Bebiane tells me.

She decided to take a break from trying for a few months, and to get a coil fitted, as friends had advised her - wrongly - that this would boost her fertility.

This was when she made the discovery that one had already been fitted.

She had it taken out, abandoned plans for a new one, and fell pregnant within months.

The experience of Mira [not her real name] is even more recent. In 2019, she discovered she had a coil inserted when a doctor found it during a medical examination.

"I was so shocked," she says.

The only time it could have been inserted without her knowledge, Mira thinks, would have been during minor uterine surgery she had in 2018.

She suffered intense pain for a year after the surgery. She says this was continuously dismissed by her doctor until a thorough check-up revealed the coil.

Mira, now 45, says the doctor told her the coil had pierced her uterus.

Exhausted by medical complications that she believes were caused by the coil, she opted to have her uterus removed entirely.

But she says the operation was not a success - she can no longer have sex because every time she does so it leads to more bleeding and excruciating pain.
Maniitsoq
Image caption,
The so-called "Coil Campaign" - intended to control Greenland's population - is being investigated
line
  iPlayer

GREENLAND'S LOST GENERATION

  100 Women goes to the heart of the Coil Campaign scandal, meeting women who've begun piecing together reasons behind physical and mental trauma that they had endured for decades in silence.

Watch now on   iPlayer (UK Only)

Watch on YouTube
  iPlayer

The coil isn't the only contraceptive device that appears to have been inserted in some of Greenland's female population without their knowledge.

Annita [not her real name] woke up from an abortion in 2011 with what she describes as a "limp feeling" in her arm, which she saw had been covered by a bandage. After asking the Danish doctor about it, he explained that it was a contraceptive implant - a small, flexible plastic rod that is placed under the skin of the upper arm.

Annita, now 31, says the doctor explained that the implant had been inserted because this was her fourth abortion.

"It was so horrible… he really crossed the line," she tells me. "I felt violated."

She demanded to have it removed, which she says he was reluctant to do. It was only when she began pulling off the bandage, threatening to take the implant out herself, that the doctor agreed to remove it.

Twenty-eight-year-old Saara, whose name we've also changed, says she, too, regained consciousness after an operation to make a shocking discovery.

It was 2014, and she had been put under general anaesthetic for a procedure following a miscarriage, but woke to a Danish nurse injecting her with the contraceptive Depo Provera.

"I didn't know what it was and she didn't ask me if I wanted it," she tells me, "just that I should come back to the hospital to get it every three months."

She says the nurse didn't even tell her the name of the drug. And once she did find it out, she had to look it up online to learn more.

Saara decided to continue using it for a few years, but she says that when she stopped taking the drug so she and her husband could have a baby, it took several years for her to fall pregnant.

She says she had not been told that Depo Provera could affect her menstrual cycle for up to 12 months after her last injection.

In September, Denmark and Greenland agreed to launch a two-year investigation. It aims to establish what happened until 1991, when Greenland took control of its health system from Denmark.

But the women I spoke to say their relatively recent experiences suggest its current scope is too limited.

"I would like that the investigation doesn't stop with 1991, and that the investigation into giving contraception to women without their consent continues to the present day," says Bebiane.

Mira says she knows of other women this has happened to.

Greenland's Health Minister Mimi Karlsen told the   that she was unaware of more recent cases of women being given contraception without informed consent.

"If there has been a practice by individuals… which contravenes the law and general ethics and care, it is of course something that we must react to."

To determine an appropriate course of action, she said she would forward the  's findings to the national health board and the chief medical officer to make a full assessment of the cases and clarify if this is a widespread issue and connected to historic policies.
Naja and Holga
Image caption,
Friends Naja and Holga had the coil fitted when they were teenagers

Naja Lybeth is one of the women who were forcibly fitted with a coil as part of the Danish Coil Campaign - in her case, in 1975.

"I was about 13 years old. It felt like I was stabbed with knives."

Her school friend Holga, now 62, was 14 when the coil was inserted.

"I blocked so much out," she says, "but I'll always remember the pain. There was so much pain for many years."

An early IUD version called the Lippes Loop was used for the campaign. It had been designed for adults who had already gone through childbirth, but was inserted into girls as young as 12.

"I could not imagine the pain you would have from placing this thing into a small cavity," says gynaecologist Aviaja Siegstad as she shows me a model of a young woman's uterus next to a Lippes Loop.

The complications that arose from the Lippes Loop being fitted in girls and young women ranged from severe bleeding, to infection, persistent pain and infertility.

As recently as the mid-1990s, Dr Siegstad found IUDs in patients who were being assessed for infertility.

"They didn't know they had it," she says. "They'd tried to become pregnant for like 10 to 15 years without knowing what the problem was."
Holga outside her old school
Image caption,
Holga sits in the spot outside her former school where she remembers bending over in agony after the coil was inserted

Naja, who works as a trauma therapist, says the fact that the experience of having the coil inserted was for some people a harrowing one, coupled with the absence of basic information, meant that many women like her had blocked the experience from memory.

"I am part of a traumatised generation of women.

"The aftermath was too difficult to deal with. It's like we collectively forgot about it."

In fact, Naja - who is on the  's list of this year's 100 inspiring and influential women from around the world - says she herself only confronted the memory when she began working through personal traumas as part of her training.

She began reaching out to other women through Facebook to find out who else had experienced something similar. In the following years, some 200 people from all over Greenland replied to her post to say they had. She now campaigns for the rights of other women affected by the scandal.

But it wasn't until a Danish podcast about the scandal aired earlier this year that the sheer scale of the campaign was revealed. It led to a national outcry.

The podcast, called Spiralkampagnen ("The Coil Campaign" in English), found records indicating that around 4,500 Greenlandic women and girls were fitted with the Lippes Loop between 1966 and 1970. That was about half of the 9,000 women of fertile age living in the country at the time.

The campaign was designed to control the population growth in Greenland, which had ballooned since the 1950s - aided by modernisation and better healthcare. This growth, in addition to an increasing rate of teenage pregnancies, had alarmed the Danish authorities.

In 1970, the campaign was considered a "success" as fertility rates had fallen sharply, though the rate continued to fall for some time after that. In the eight years from the campaign's inception in 1966 until 1974 when it levelled off, Greenland's fertility rate plunged from seven children per woman, to 2.3.
Graph

Magnus Heunicke, Denmark's acting health minister, says there are no records of when the campaign stopped, so finding that out is one of the remits of the current investigation.

"What I fear is that it could have been something that continued for decades," he told me.

After years of pain, Naja had her coil removed at the age of 17. She finally managed to have one child at the age of 35 after several years of trying to conceive.

As for her friend Holga, she says she visited the doctor many times afterwards about the pain, and later, about struggling to fall pregnant. She says she was repeatedly told that nothing was wrong, but was never examined.

She can't remember at exactly what age the coil was finally discovered and removed, but she never managed to have a child.

Holga had her uterus removed in 2018 on the advice of her doctor, due to various complications as a result of the Lippes Loop.
Susanne
Image caption,
Susanne says she was forced to have an abortion

The most shocking historic case I encountered was that of Susanne Kielsen, now 75.

After a routine check-up when she was five months' pregnant with her second child, the doctor told her he wanted to abort the baby because of a previous gynaecological complication.

She says the "complication" had been addressed before the pregnancy, and was in good health. Nevertheless she says they went ahead and induced an abortion - she says this required no less than 31 injections - but the baby did not die. Finally, at seven months, she went into labour and her baby died within an hour of being born. Within hours she says there were four attempts to insert a coil before she finally told the doctor to stop.

She says that she used to imagine hearing the baby, whom she later learned was a little boy, crying in her house.

"My sadness just overcomes me."

She says she wants an apology from the Danish authorities before it's too late.

Photographs and illustration by Elaine Jung
  100 Women logo 2022

  100 Women names 100 inspiring and influential women around the world every year. Follow   100 Women on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Join the conversation using # 100Women.
Related Topics

    Greenland
    Women's health
    Denmark
    Health
    Women
    Pregnancy
    Contraception

More on this story

    Greenland's birth control scandal: New testimony
        Published
        9 December 2022
    Bebiane

    Birth control scandal of Greenland's young women
        Published
        30 September 2022
    Photo of Naja Lyberth in her home

    Inuit seek Denmark compensation over experiment
        Published
        23 November 2021
    Houses in the town of Ilulissat, Greenland. Photo: September 2021

Top Stories

    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
        Published
        5 hours ago

    Live. 

    Civilians flee northern Gaza as US says it is working with Israel on 'safe areas'

    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
        Published
        5 hours ago

Features

    Chris Mason: SNP leader struggling in political headwind
    First Minister Humza Yousaf takes First Minister's Questions in the Scottish Parliament

    Father saves daughter he hadn’t seen for six years from massacre
    A victim of the attack

    Rosenberg: Putin ready to benefit from Israel-Gaza war
    Vladimir Putin

    Watch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack. VideoWatch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack

Grodon Corera

Israel-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home. AudioIsrael-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home

    Attribution

    Sounds

    Newscast logo

    Critics say Scherzinger 'dazzles' in West End
    Nicole Scherzinger in Sunset Boulevard

    Weekly quiz: Which fat bear was crowned queen of the wild?
    Brown bear

    Three ways US Republican Speaker chaos ends
    Jim Jordan (left) and Patrick McHenry (right)

    Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants
    People wait by the key border crossing as trucks carrying goods destined for Afghanistan line up, following clashes between security forces of Pakistan and Afghanistan, in Torkham, Pakistan on September 07, 2023

Elsewhere on the  

    An epic tale of seduction, blood and immortality

    A sumptuous reinvention of Anne Rice's novel starting Jacob Anderson and Sam Reid
        Attribution

    iPlayer

Interview with the Vampire

Breathing your way to better health

Why using your nose could benefit your gums, lungs and even impact your memory!

    Attribution

    Sounds

Just One Thing

From dashcam scams to payroll con confessions

Follow the teams pursuing criminals who steal billions from the government, taxpayers and charities

    Attribution

    iPlayer

Fraud Squad

How to beat the insurance hikes

Top tips on how to get the best deals on your car and home insurance renewals

    Attribution

        Sounds
    The Martin Lewis Podcast

Most Read

    1
    Flintoff agrees compensation over Top Gear crash
    2
    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
    3
    Same-sex couples facing 'gay tax' to start family
    4
    Britain's Got Talent star sues US show after injuries
    5
    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
    6
      journalists held at gunpoint by Israeli police
    7
    Bank boss warns world facing 'most dangerous time'
    8
    Glorify Hamas and you break law - terror watchdog
    9
    Texts reveal No 10 staff's Carrie Johnson complaints
    10
    France raises security level after school attack

  News Services

On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts

    Contact   News

Best of   iPlayer

The timeless legacy of Coco Chanel

    Attribution

    COCO CHANEL UNBUTTONED

What does it take to be a soldier?

    Attribution

    SOLDIER

'I've suffered for such a long time'

    Attribution

    INSOMNIA AND ME

From buying antiques to selling online

    Attribution

    VINTAGE FRENCH FARMHOUSE

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Weather
    iPlayer
    Sounds
    C 
    CBeebies
    Food
    Bitesize
    Arts
    Taster
    Local
    Three

    Terms of Use
    About the  
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Parental Guidance
    Contact the  
    Make an editorial complaint
    Get Personalised Newsletters
    Why you can trust the  

© 2023  . The   is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Enhance your language skills abroad
Learn more
Related
10 Italian expressions everyone should know
By Carlotta · 3 min read
How to speak English fluently – 10 key steps
By Kaisa · 7 min read
Learn English with these 11 free podcasts
By Florence · 6 min read
10 confusing English words (and how to get them right)
By Erin · 4 min read
See more from
Culture
Popular
20 English idioms that everyone should know
By Emma · 5 min read
15 English abbreviations you need to know
By Erin · 4 min read
10 most difficult words in English
By Erin · 5 min read
11 bits of WhatsApp slang you need to master today
By Sonja · 4 min read
10 things no one tells you about tipping in the US
By Linda · 7 min read
10 German expressions everyone should know
By Julie · 6 min read
10 best TV shows to learn English with
By Тom · 4 min read
12 weirdest words in English
By Kaisa · 1 min read
10 Spanish expressions everyone should know
By Erin · 5 min read
50 most inspiring travel quotes of all time
By Simon · 4 min read
5 easy languages to learn
By Martinique · 2 min read
17 German words with no English translation
By Martinique · 5 min read
We'd love to stay in touch

Get the latest on travel, languages and culture with our newsletter. We send it out once a month and you can opt out anytime.

Yes, I (or my legal guardian) have read and understood how EF processes my personal data as set out in the Privacy Policy, and agree to EF's use of my personal data for direct marketing purposes.

Thank you!

You are now subscribed. You'll hear from us soon!
About EF's GO Blog

EF's GO blog offers the latest on travel, languages, culture, international careers and student life. We live and breathe this stuff here at EF and hope GO inspires, excites and helps you plot your next steps in life.
About EF International Language Campuses

Our mission is simple: We open the world through education. For over 55 years, millions of students have traveled abroad with us to learn a language and become immersed in a new culture. Today, students from over 100 countries study one of 10 languages at EF's 50 International Language Campuses in 20 countries around the world.
Programs by age

    10 - 14 years
    14 - 18 years
    18 - 25 years
    25 + years
    Companies and governments
    All ages

Popular programs

    Student exchange programs
    Learn French in France
    Language school in Japan
    Learn French in Paris
    Learn Spanish in Spain
    Language school in Korea
    Study abroad
    Learn Italian in Italy
    High school study abroad
    Learn English
    All programs

Discover

    EF Blog
    EF English Proficiency Index (EF EPI)
    Resources for learning English
    Language tests
    EF Teacher Zone
    Useful guides

About EF Education First

    About us
    EF Offices
    All EF programs
    Careers at EF

Headquarters

    Selnaustrasse 30
    8001 Zürich
    +41 43 430 41 50
    View all worldwide offices

Global Site / English

    Privacy policyTerms and ConditionsCookies© Signum International AG 2023. All rights reserved.


Skip to content
EngFluent

    Home
    Blog
    About
    Contact

Best   to Read to Improve Your English (Novels & Nonfiction)

Are you looking for the best English   to read?

You’re are at the right place!

On this page, you’ll find suggestions for excellent English   (and a few helpful reading tips).

Table of Contents:

    The Cheapest Way to Buy English  
    Famous Novels in English to Read
    Best English Nonfiction   to Read
    Should You Read Free Stuff on the Web?
    How to Understand What You Read

Bonus: Want to speak English well but don't have a practice partner? There's still a way!  I show you exactly how in my English speaking course.
The Cheapest Way to Buy English  

English   can be expensive.

In my country, they’re 30% – 60% more expensive than local  .

So if you want to save money, I recommend buying digital   from Amazon.com (instead of physical   from your local  tore).

The prices of physical   range from $5 to $25. (It’s rare to find them cheaper than that because of printing and distribution costs.)

However, if you examine the prices of digital   on Amazon, they usually range from $0 to $15.

In fact, there are plenty of great   that are free or dirt cheap!

This is possible because digital   don’t have printing, distribution, or storage costs. (Technically they do, but the costs are negligible.)

Digital   are convenient. You can read them on your phone using Amazon’s Kindle app.
Amazon’s Kindle app

This reading app is optimized to give you the best reading experience possible. There are no ads or other distractions, and you can enlarge the text so it’s easy on the eyes.

And if you see a word you don’t know, you can long-press on that word and the meaning will show up instantly. (This is such a convenient and time-saving feature.)

If you’re not sure about buying a particular book, you can request a free sample. If you read the sample and don’t like it, you don’t have to buy.

If you have never read digital   on Kindle app before, give it a try. (You can start by reading free samples or free  .) You may not want to go back to reading physical   again.

Did you know that Amazon is the world’s largest  tore? Unlike traditional  tores where the number of   is limited by physical space, there are millions of digital   on Amazon!
By the way, do you want to improve your spoken English?
If so, enter your email address to join my English speaking course:
Join English Course
Famous Novels in English to Read

Reading novels is awesome; you get to be immersed in an imaginative world.

Novels have a wide range of words that describe places, objects, characters, emotions, actions, etc. So reading fiction can improve your vocabulary like nothing else.

    Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face, not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay smoothly on his thick, fat head.
    Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone

Fiction also contains a lot of “dialogue” (conversations between characters). Which means you get to learn vocabulary that people use in spoken English.

Here are the novels that I recommend:

    Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone (Fantasy) — The first book of the magical Harry Potter series. I’ve reread these   so many times. The first two   are easy to read and perfect for novice readers, whereas the later   are more mature and suitable for intermediates.)
    Angel and Demon & The Da Vinci Code (mystery thriller) — The first two   of the controversial Robert Langdon series. There are more novels in the series but I didn’t like them much. (I feel like the author kept using the same plot structure.) But these first two kept me up all night!
    Ender’s Game (sci-fi) — This novel is about a genius boy who is recruited into a battle school where he has to undergo military training to become the commander of a war against aliens. If you like a story where the main character is highly intelligent, you’ll love this book.

I know this is a short list. (Sorry about that.) I’ve read more titles but these are the only ones I couldn’t put down.

That said, the Harry Potter series has 7   total (most of which are very long). Reading this series alone is more than enough to keep you busy for a long time.
Best English Nonfiction   to Read

The best nonfiction   “for you” are ones based on your interests.

If you’re interested in being healthy, read fitness  . If you want to invest your money, read investing  . If you’re passionate about learning history, read history  .

That said, if you’re not sure what   are worth reading, here are some excellent   everyone should read:

    The Compound Effect — Every day, we all have to make many decisions like whether to read a book or browse social media, whether to learn English or play games. These decisions will determine your success or failure. This book will help you make better decisions. It will teach you the importance of every choice you make no matter how small it seems.
    Mini Habits: Smaller Habits, Bigger Results — To improve your English, you need to develop some good habits like listening, reading, and practicing English. This book will teach you how to develop these habits.
    Mindset: The New Psychology of Success — According to this book, there are two types of people: 1) people with “a fixed mindset” who believe their abilities can’t be changed and 2) people with “a growth mindset” who think that abilities can be improved. Your success in life depends on which mindset you have.
    The Success Principles — This book will teach you how to succeed at anything you set your mind to do (such as improving your English). Many of the ideas in this book are truly powerful and life changing. Definitely a good read.
    Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future — A biography of Elon Musk, one of the world’s most influential persons today. This guy achieved feats that many thought impossible. A truly admirable person.

Reminder: if you’re not sure about a particular book, you can download a sample first.
Should You Read Free Stuff on The Web?

Other than  , there are other types of reading material:

    Blogs/websites (online articles)
    Forums
    News apps
    English reading apps (for English students)

The advantage of these materials is that, unlike  , they’re completely free.

However, I highly recommend that you stick with  .

The main reason is that these types of reading material contain advertisements and other distracting elements (like pop-ups). So it’s hard to stay focused.

When you read something to improve your English, you should be in a state of full concentration. These distractions will prevent you from entering that state.

Also, in terms of quality,   are the best material to read. When you read a book, you’re reading a piece of work that someone spent months or even years writing.

Online reading materials, on the other hand, tend to be written in a matter of hours. They’re rather disposable and don’t provide as much value.
How to Understand What You Read

Some English   can be difficult to understand.

Here are some useful tips for better reading comprehension:
Tip #1: Read a book that suits your English level

Before picking a book, always read a sample to see whether it’s too difficult for you.

If you buy digital   on Amazon, you can download a sample of every book for free. Or if you don’t have an Amazon account, you can google “excerpt [book name]” for sample text from the book.

Different   have different levels of vocabulary and writing style. Classic   written a long time ago tend to be difficult to understand, so try to avoid them if you’re a novice reader.
Tip #2: Read novels that have been made into movies
Films based on popular novels

Novels can be challenging to understand.

If you’ve tried to read a novel before, you probably found it difficult to imagine the places, people, and other things described in the novel.

A way to overcome this challenge is to watch the film adaptation of a novel first.

This way, when reading the novel, it will be easier to follow the plot and visualize the things in the novel.
Tip #3: Read a book is your native language first, then read the English version.

If you own the translated version of a particular book, then buy and read the English version as well.

Having both versions is useful. If you have don’t understand a passage in the English version, you can consult the translated version for the meaning of that passage.

I know applying this advice costs money. You have to buy (or borrow) two versions of the same book. But you won’t believe how much you will learn using this method.

If you use this strategy with   with a lot of difficult words and passages, your vocabulary and reading skills will improve by leaps and bounds!
Tip #4: Use Google Image Search

When reading a book, you often come across words that represent physical objects:

    a waistcoat
    a plaid sweater
    the hull of a ship
    a courtyard

If you read the meanings of these words and still have trouble visualizing the objects, you can search Google for images of the objects.
Google Image Search

As the old saying goes, a picture is worth a thousand words.

Want to improve your spoken English?

If yes, join my English speaking course below:

Start the English Course

Over 142,000 people have joined the course. I'd love for you to join too :-)
Copyright © 2023 EngFluent.com
Terms of Service | Privacy Policy

Top
Skip to main content
The U.S. National Archives Home
Blogs · Bookmark/Share · Contact Us
Search
Main menu

    Research Our Records
    Veterans' Service Records
    Educator Resources
    Visit Us
    America's Founding Documents

America's Founding Documents
Home > America's Founding Documents > Declaration of Independence Transcript
America's Founding Documents

    Main Page

Explore the Documents

    Declaration of Independence
    Constitution of the United States
    Bill of Rights

Special Features

    High Resolution Downloads
    Sign the Declaration or Constitution
    The Faulkner Murals
    Meet the Framers of the Constitution

Other Resources

    Visit the National Archives Museum
    View Other Milestone Documents
    Browse Teaching Resources for the Revolutionary Era
    Civics for All of US
    Explore Online Exhibits
    Search the National Archives Catalog
    Discover the Founders Online
    Shop the Archives Store
    Ask a Question on History Hub

Declaration of Independence: A Transcription
Print This Page

 

Note: The following text is a transcription of the Stone Engraving of the parchment Declaration of Independence (the document on display in the Rotunda at the National Archives Museum.) The spelling and punctuation reflects the original.

In Congress, July 4, 1776

The unanimous Declaration of the thirteen united States of America, When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.

We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.--That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, --That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security.--Such has been the patient sufferance of these Colonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to alter their former Systems of Government. The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny over these States. To prove this, let Facts be submitted to a candid world.

He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesome and necessary for the public good.

He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing importance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assent should be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to them.

He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodation of large districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of Representation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them and formidable to tyrants only.

He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their public Records, for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures.

He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, for opposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.

He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause others to be elected; whereby the Legislative powers, incapable of Annihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise; the State remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of invasion from without, and convulsions within.

He has endeavoured to prevent the population of these States; for that purpose obstructing the Laws for Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing to pass others to encourage their migrations hither, and raising the conditions of new Appropriations of Lands.

He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary powers.

He has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.

He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers to harrass our people, and eat out their substance.

He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without the Consent of our legislatures.

He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior to the Civil power.

He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent to their Acts of pretended Legislation:

For Quartering large bodies of armed troops among us:

For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from punishment for any Murders which they should commit on the Inhabitants of these States:

For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world:

For imposing Taxes on us without our Consent:

For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of Trial by Jury:

For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried for pretended offences

For abolishing the free System of English Laws in a neighbouring Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, and enlarging its Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fit instrument for introducing the same absolute rule into these Colonies:

For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable Laws, and altering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments:

For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring themselves invested with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.

He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out of his Protection and waging War against us.

He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and destroyed the lives of our people.

He is at this time transporting large Armies of foreign Mercenaries to compleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun with circumstances of Cruelty & perfidy scarcely paralleled in the most barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the Head of a civilized nation.

He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas to bear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners of their friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.

He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages, whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction of all ages, sexes and conditions.

In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for Redress in the most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have been answered only by repeated injury. A Prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.

Nor have We been wanting in attentions to our Brittish brethren. We have warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have appealed to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which, would inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too have been deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We must, therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation, and hold them, as we hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in War, in Peace Friends.

We, therefore, the Representatives of the united States of America, in General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by Authority of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent States; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may of right do. And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred Honor.

Georgia

Button Gwinnett

Lyman Hall

George Walton

 

North Carolina

William Hooper

Joseph Hewes

John Penn

 

South Carolina

Edward Rutledge

Thomas Heyward, Jr.

Thomas Lynch, Jr.

Arthur Middleton

 

Massachusetts

John Hancock

Maryland

Samuel Chase

William Paca

Thomas Stone

Charles Carroll of Carrollton

 

Virginia

George Wythe

Richard Henry Lee

Thomas Jefferson

Benjamin Harrison

Thomas Nelson, Jr.

Francis Lightfoot Lee

Carter Braxton

 

Pennsylvania

Robert Morris

Benjamin Rush

Benjamin Franklin

John Morton

George Clymer

James Smith

George Taylor

James Wilson

George Ross

Delaware

Caesar Rodney

George Read

Thomas McKean

 

New York

William Floyd

Philip Livingston

Francis Lewis

Lewis Morris

 

New Jersey

Richard Stockton

John Witherspoon

Francis Hopkinson

John Hart

Abraham Clark

 

New Hampshire

Josiah Bartlett

William Whipple

 

Massachusetts

Samuel Adams

John Adams

Robert Treat Paine

Elbridge Gerry

 

Rhode Island

Stephen Hopkins

William Ellery

 

Connecticut

Roger Sherman

Samuel Huntington

William Williams

Oliver Wolcott

 

New Hampshire

Matthew Thornton
 

About the Declaration
What Does it Say?
The meaning of the document
How Did it Happen?
The history of the document
How Was it Made?
The creation of the parchment document
Where can I learn about the Declaration?
Additional activities and information
How can I visit the Declaration?
The National Archives Museum
Read a Transcript
Declaration of Independence transcript

 
refer to caption
Enlarge
Declaration of Independence

The condition of the parchment Declaration of Independence is a sign of the place it has held in the hearts of many Americans. Years of public display have faded and worn this treasured document. Today it is maintained under the most exacting archival conditions possible.

Shoping bag image

Shop the National Archives Store

This page was last reviewed on October 11, 2023.
Contact us with questions or comments.
Founding Documents
Explore the Documents

    Declaration of Independence
    Constitution of the United States
    Bill of Rights

Special Features

    High Resolution Downloads
    Sign the Declaration
    The Faulkner Murals
    Meet the Framers of the Constitution

Other Resources

    Plan Your Visit to the National Archives Museum
    View Other Milestone Documents
    Browse Revolutionary Era Classroom Activities
    Explore Online Exhibits
    Search the National Archives Catalog
    Shop the Archives Store

I Want To…

    Get My Military Record
    Plan a Research Visit
    Visit the Museum
    View Online Exhibits
    Apply for a Grant

Participate

    Attend an Event
    Donate to the Archives
    Work at the Archives
    Volunteer at the Archives

Resources

    America's Founding Docs
    Contact Us
    En Español
    FAQs
    Forms

Shop Online

    Visit the National Archives Store
    Buy Reproductions and Microfilm

Connect With Us

    Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube Blogs Flickr 

Contact Us · Accessibility · Privacy Policy · Freedom of Information Act · No FEAR Act · USA.gov

The U.S. National Archives and Records Administration
1-86-NARA-NARA or 1-866-272-6272
Top
Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

No, take me to settings
  Homepage

    Skip to content
    Accessibility Help

Sign in

    Notifications

    Home

News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize

    More menu

Search  

  News

    Home
    Cost of Living
    War in Ukraine
    Climate
    UK
    World
    Business
    Politics
    Culture
    Tech

More

    Health

Have I dodged Covid and what does it mean?

    Published

    13 November 2022

Related Topics

    Coronavirus 

James holding his blood vialImage source, James Gallagher
By James Gallagher
Inside Health presenter,   Radio 4

I hope this vial of blood contains answers because I have a nagging question - have I managed to dodge Covid?

It seems remarkable that anyone could. The virus has swept the world since it emerged in China nearly three years ago. Fresh variants have become better and better at infecting us. Even vaccines make Covid milder rather than being an impenetrable shield.

Yet I worked in the office throughout, even in lockdowns, and the virus ripped through the rest of my family and I didn't get sick. And I'm far from the only person to have gone through the pandemic without getting the walloping symptoms of Covid or to have never tested positive. One estimate in the summer suggested around one-in-10 people in the UK still hadn't been infected.

So what's going on? And does my body - and those of other "never-Coviders" - contain some secret to tackling the disease?

There are three broad possibilities if you think you've dodged the virus:

    You're wrong - you have actually been infected, but never realised 

    You've never come into contact with it 

    Or your body has some extra defence that has repelled it

"There are a lot of people saying, 'I've never had 'Covid-the-disease'. Most probably aren't right, they may have been infected and it just didn't result in any symptoms," Dr Lindsay Broadbent, a virologist at the University of Surrey, tells me.

"But we do know there are just some people who have never been infected, even in high risk environments such as nurses," she adds.
line

    Listen to Inside Health: Have I dodged Covid?

line

One study of people being regularly tested found half of those catching the Omicron variant remained blissfully unaware or put their mild symptoms down to something else.

My blood - painfully milked out of my index finger - will determine whether I have been deluding myself too. I seal the blood in a vial and post it to a research laboratory for analysis of the mixture of antibodies it contains.

Antibodies are a part of the immune system. They act like missiles that stick to viruses. This stops them infecting our body's cells and tells the rest of the immune system to kill the virus.

Different antibodies stick to different parts of the virus and the test focuses on two of them:

    Anti-S antibodies that stick to a protein on the surface of the virus called spike

    Anti-N antibodies that stick to an inner layer of the virus - called the nucleocapsid - that protects the virus's genetic code

All the vaccines used in the UK train the body to attack only the spike protein. Even a year after my last booster, the test shows I have high levels of anti-S antibodies.

Your body learns to attack the other parts of the virus only when facing the virus itself. If anti-N antibodies were in my blood that would mean I'd been infected with Covid.

I test negative and the idea I have dodged Covid passes its first hurdle.

Prof Mala Maini, a professor of viral immunology, invites me into her laboratory at University College London to explore the results.

"It could mean that you've never had the infection, but it could also mean you've made anti-N antibodies and they've gone from your blood," she tells me.
Interpreting the resultsImage source, James Gallagher
Image caption,
Prof Mala Maini explains the blood test results to James Gallagher

However, I have never tested positive despite:

    Testing with lateral flows twice a week for a chunk of the pandemic to come into the office

    Driving to a grim car park for a PCR test or taking a lateral flow whenever I had symptoms 

    Testing daily when family were sick with Covid

Prof Maini concludes: "Put together with your negative anti-N antibody test, it suggests you may be someone who has escaped a full-blown infection.

"You may have had what we call an 'abortive' infection."
An immunological head start

The idea of an abortive infection is you are exposed to the virus, it even gets into the right places to start an infection, but the body gets on top of it before it takes off.

We know this happens from studies that have tried to deliberately infect people with Covid. These human challenge trials squirted virus up the nose of healthy volunteers, but in the first 34 people to take part, only half actually developed an infection.

The first line of protection is the innate immune system. This is our body's default defence. It cannot learn or "remember" infections, so each time is like the first time. But it is so fast it can stop an infection in its tracks.

Dr Broadbent demonstrated this by conducting experiments using miniature lungs grown from people's cells - called organoids - and trying to infect them with the virus.

"We found one person that we just could not infect, we were sticking bucketloads of virus on these cells and there was no infection," she tells me.

The other half of the immune system is known as the adaptive immune system, which learns and gets better with practice. This is how vaccines prepare the body for fighting Covid.

"It could just be that the vaccines worked well for you and have given you very good protection," suggests Prof Maini.

But vaccines seem to give only limited and rapidly-waning protection against catching the virus. And there were no vaccines for the first year of the pandemic.

However, there are other ways this part of the immune system could stop an infection.

Blood and lung samples taken from hospital staff before the pandemic, showed some already had protective T-cells. These are like sentinels that inspect other cells for signs of infection. If they find a contaminated cell, they kill it.

Even before the first cases arrived in the UK, some people had these anti-Covid soldiers in their bodies. They are probably the result of catching other common cold coronaviruses, which are closely related to the Covid virus.

"If you have young children at school, it's very likely that you would have been exposed to these in the preceding years," Prof Maini tells me.

"If you've got these pre-existing T-cells ready and waiting then they can act much more quickly and bring down the infection before it becomes positive on your test," she adds.

Covid-resistant people inspire new vaccine tactic

The hope is a new generation of vaccines can be developed that mimic this pre-existing immunity.

"If you could make T-cells against the inner regions of the virus and get those responses in the nose, airways and lungs there's a much better chance they could abort the infection before it takes off, that's the goal," says Prof Maini.

My gut feeling is that the torrent of bugs every toddler brings home from nursery to plague their already weary parents helped me dodge Covid.
Other explanations?

There are two other possibilities, but they either don't apply to me or are incredibly rare.

Some people have never been exposed to the virus because they have shunned contact with other people. I've interviewed the super-shielders who have isolated themselves for nearly 1,000 days, often because they have weakened immune systems that leave them more vulnerable. This isn't me after getting the train to work throughout and even sharing a bed with a sickly toddler.

    Podcast: 950 days of shielding

The other idea is genetic invulnerability, which does happen with other diseases.

The famous example is human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). A rare few are born with a lucky genetic mutation that completely shields them from the virus. A mutation in a section of their genetic code - called CCR5 - changes the locks on our body's cells so HIV can't get inside. This has been used to cure some people of HIV and similar mutations have been shown to lock coronavirus out of people's cells.

"It's incredibly, incredibly small numbers that have some kind of genetic resistance," says Dr Broadbent.
So am I safe this winter?

So for any of us that have still not caught the virus, can we go into the festive season with confidence or are we actually the most at-risk?

The protection from the vaccine means that the chances of being severely ill are greatly lowered even if it cannot stop the infection.

But research, including a study in Switzerland, suggests having had the virus and the vaccine - known as hybrid immunity - gives the strongest immune response.

"So it may mean that you are a bit more at risk," warns Prof Maini.

Dr Broadbent agrees: "If you don't think you've had it up to now, it does not mean resistance… chances are you're lucky."

Personally, I suspect writing this piece has tempted fate therefore ensuring I catch Covid by Christmas!

Follow James on Twitter, Inside Health was produced by Beth Eastwood.
line
More from Inside Health

    Multiple sclerosis: Is a virus we all have causing MS?
    Long Covid: 'I've had long Covid for two years now'
    Sickle cell: 'The revolutionary gene-editing treatment that gave me new life'
    Cervical cancer: Vaccines could mean only one smear test a lifetime
    Animals for organs: Are pigs the future of organ transplants?
    Asthma: Why switching inhaler could be better for you and the planet
    Vegan ready meals: How healthy are they?

Related Topics

    Medical research
    Coronavirus vaccines
    Vaccination
    James Gallagher
    Coronavirus
    Immune system

Top Stories

    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
        Published
        5 hours ago

    Live. 

    Civilians flee northern Gaza as US says it is working with Israel on 'safe areas'

    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
        Published
        5 hours ago

Features

    Chris Mason: SNP leader struggling in political headwind
    First Minister Humza Yousaf takes First Minister's Questions in the Scottish Parliament

    Father saves daughter he hadn’t seen for six years from massacre
    A victim of the attack

    Rosenberg: Putin ready to benefit from Israel-Gaza war
    Vladimir Putin

    Watch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack. VideoWatch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack

Grodon Corera

Israel-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home. AudioIsrael-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home

    Attribution

    Sounds

    Newscast logo

    Critics say Scherzinger 'dazzles' in West End
    Nicole Scherzinger in Sunset Boulevard

    Weekly quiz: Which fat bear was crowned queen of the wild?
    Brown bear

    Three ways US Republican Speaker chaos ends
    Jim Jordan (left) and Patrick McHenry (right)

    Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants
    People wait by the key border crossing as trucks carrying goods destined for Afghanistan line up, following clashes between security forces of Pakistan and Afghanistan, in Torkham, Pakistan on September 07, 2023

Elsewhere on the  

    An epic tale of seduction, blood and immortality

    A sumptuous reinvention of Anne Rice's novel starting Jacob Anderson and Sam Reid
        Attribution

    iPlayer

Interview with the Vampire

Breathing your way to better health

Why using your nose could benefit your gums, lungs and even impact your memory!

    Attribution

    Sounds

Just One Thing

From dashcam scams to payroll con confessions

Follow the teams pursuing criminals who steal billions from the government, taxpayers and charities

    Attribution

    iPlayer

Fraud Squad

How to beat the insurance hikes

Top tips on how to get the best deals on your car and home insurance renewals

    Attribution

        Sounds
    The Martin Lewis Podcast

Most Read

    1
    Flintoff agrees compensation over Top Gear crash
    2
    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
    3
    Same-sex couples facing 'gay tax' to start family
    4
    Britain's Got Talent star sues US show after injuries
    5
    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
    6
      journalists held at gunpoint by Israeli police
    7
    Bank boss warns world facing 'most dangerous time'
    8
    Glorify Hamas and you break law - terror watchdog
    9
    Texts reveal No 10 staff's Carrie Johnson complaints
    10
    France raises security level after school attack

  News Services

On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts

    Contact   News

Best of   iPlayer

The timeless legacy of Coco Chanel

    Attribution

    COCO CHANEL UNBUTTONED

What does it take to be a soldier?

    Attribution

    SOLDIER

'I've suffered for such a long time'

    Attribution

    INSOMNIA AND ME

From buying antiques to selling online

    Attribution

    VINTAGE FRENCH FARMHOUSE

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Weather
    iPlayer
    Sounds
    C 
    CBeebies
    Food
    Bitesize
    Arts
    Taster
    Local
    Three

    Terms of Use
    About the  
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Parental Guidance
    Contact the  
    Make an editorial complaint
    Get Personalised Newsletters
    Why you can trust the  

© 2023  . The   is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

No, take me to settings
  Homepage

    Skip to content
    Accessibility Help

Sign in

    Notifications

    Home

News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize

    More menu

Search  

  News

    Home
    Cost of Living
    War in Ukraine
    Climate
    UK
    World
    Business
    Politics
    Culture
    Tech

More

    UK
    England
    N. Ireland
    Scotland
    Alba
    Wales
    Cymru
    Isle of Man
    Guernsey
    Jersey
    Local News

Deepfaked: ‘They put my face on a porn video’

    Published

    21 October 2022

Kate Isaacs
Image caption,
Kate Isaacs
By Sarah McDermott and Jess Davies
  News

Imagine if your face had been digitally edited into a porn video without your consent and then shared on the internet. One woman reveals the horror of it happening to her.

Scrolling through her Twitter feed one evening, Kate Isaacs stumbled across a disturbing video among her notifications.

"This panic just washed over me," Kate says, speaking publicly for the first time about what happened. "Someone had taken my face, put it on to a porn video, and made it look like it was me."

Kate had been deepfaked. Someone had used artificial intelligence to digitally manipulate her face onto someone else's - in this case a porn actress.

The deepfake video on Twitter - with Kate, who campaigns against non-consensual porn, tagged - had been made using footage from TV interviews she had given while campaigning. It appeared to show her having sex.

"My heart sank. I couldn't think clearly," she says. "I remember just feeling like this video was going to go everywhere - it was horrendous."
Tweet: Anti-porn crusader Kate Isaacs wants to get rid of porn because she's scared her own tape is going to come out
Image caption,
Kate was tagged in a tweet with a link to the deepfake

In the past, high-profile celebrities and politicians were the most common targets of deepfakes - the videos weren't always porn, some were made for comedic value. But over the years that's changed - according to cybersecurity company Deeptrace, 96% of all deepfakes are non-consensual porn.

Like revenge porn, deepfake pornography is what's known as image-based sexual abuse - an umbrella term which encompasses the taking, making and/or sharing of intimate images without consent.

It is already an offence in Scotland to share images or videos that show another person in an intimate situation without their consent. But in other parts of the UK, it's only an offence if it can be proved that such actions were intended to cause the victim distress - a loophole which means video creators often don't face legal consequences.

Government plans for a long-awaited UK-wide Online Safety Bill have been under endless revision and repeatedly shelved. The new laws would give the regulator, Ofcom, the power to take action against any website deemed to be enabling harm to UK users, no matter where they are based in the world. Earlier this month, however, Culture Secretary Michelle Donelan said she and her team were now "working flat out" to ensure the bill was delivered.

Kate, 30, founded the #NotYourPorn campaign in 2019. A year later, her activism contributed to the adult entertainment website, Pornhub, having to take down all videos uploaded to the site by unverified users - the majority of its content.

Kate therefore assumed that whoever was behind the deepfake of her had been annoyed by her campaigning. She had "taken away their porn".

But she had no idea who that person was, or who might have seen the video. And while she could see that her face had been overlaid onto footage of a porn actor, the video was convincing enough that she worried others might not spot the deception.

"It was a violation - my identity was used in a way I didn't consent to."

Underneath the video, people began leaving streams of abusive comments, saying they were going to follow Kate home, rape her, film the attack, and publish the footage on the internet.

"You start thinking about your family," she says, holding back tears. "How would they feel if they saw this content?"

The threat intensified when both Kate's home and work addresses were published below the video - a practice known as doxing.

"I became completely paranoid - 'Who knows my address? Is it someone I know that's done this?'

"I was thinking, 'I'm really in trouble here, this isn't just some people on the internet mouthing off, there's actually a real danger.'"

From her experience supporting others in similar situations, Kate knew exactly what to do if someone becomes a victim - but in that moment she froze.

"I didn't follow any of my own advice," she says. "Kate the campaigner was very strong and didn't show any vulnerability - and then there was me, Kate, who was really scared."

A colleague reported the video, vicious comments and doxing to Twitter, and they were all taken down from the platform. But once any deepfake has been published and shared online it's difficult to remove it from circulation entirely.

"I just wanted that video off the internet," Kate says, "but there was nothing I could do about it."

There's a marketplace for deepfakes in online forums. People post requests for videos to be made of their wives, neighbours and co-workers and - unfathomable as it might seem - even their mothers, daughters and cousins.

Content creators respond with step-by-step instructions - what source material they'll need, advice on which filming angles work best, and price tags for the work.

A deepfake content creator based in south-east England, Gorkem, spoke to the   anonymously. He began creating celebrity deepfakes for his own gratification - he says they allow people to "realise their fantasies in ways that really wasn't [sic] possible before".

Later, Gorkem moved on to deepfaking women he was attracted to, including colleagues at his day job who he barely knew.
  iPlayer

Deepfake Porn: Could You Be Next?

Harmless images are being turned into hardcore porn and used to harass women. Jess Davies explores the emotional and psychological toll being "deepfaked" has on unsuspecting victims.

Watch on   iPlayer (UK Only)
  iPlayer

"One was married, the other in a relationship," he says. "Walking into work after having deepfaked these women - it did feel odd, but I just controlled my nerves. I can act like nothing's wrong - no-one would suspect."

Realising he could make money from what he refers to as his "hobby", Gorkem started taking commissions for custom deepfakes. Gathering footage from women's social media profiles provides him with plenty of source material. He says he even recently deepfaked a woman using a Zoom call recording.

"With a good amount of video, looking straight at the camera, that's good data for me. Then the algorithm can just extrapolate from that and make a good reconstruction of the face on the destination video."

He accepts "some women" could be psychologically harmed by being deepfaked, but seems indifferent about the potential impact of the way he is objectifying them.

"They can just say, 'It's not me - this has been faked.' They should just recognise that and get on with their day.

"From a moral standpoint I don't think there's anything that would stop me," he says. "If I'm going to make money from a commission I would do it, it's a no brainer."

The standard of deepfakes can vary wildly, and depends both on the expertise of the person who made the video and the sophistication of the technology used.

But the man behind the largest deepfake porn website admits it's no longer easy to know for certain whether you're looking at manipulated images or not. His site attracts about 13 million visitors a month and hosts roughly 20,000 videos at any one time. He is based in the US and rarely speaks to the media - but he agreed to talk to the   anonymously.

Deepfaking "ordinary" women is a red line for him, he says, but in his view, hosting pornographic deepfake videos of celebrities, social media influencers and politicians, is justifiable.

"They're accustomed to negative media, their content is available in the mainstream. They're different to normal citizens," he says.

"The way I see it, they are able to deal with it in a different way - they can just brush it off. I don't really feel consent is required - it's a fantasy, it's not real."

Does he think what he's doing is wrong? Part of him is "in denial about the impact on women", he admits - and notably, he reveals that his spouse doesn't know what he does for a living.

"I haven't told my wife. I'm afraid of how it might affect her."

Until relatively recently, deepfake software wasn't easily available, and the average person wouldn't have had the skills to make them. But now, anyone over the age of 12 can legally download dozens of apps and make convincing deepfakes in a few clicks.

For Kate that's worrying and "really scary".

"It's not the dark web, it's in the app stores - right in front of our faces."
Kate Isaacs
Image caption,
"I'm not letting them win," says Kate

She also fears the hoped-for Online Safety Bill won't keep up with technology. Three years ago, when the bill was first drafted, deepfake creation was seen as a professional skill in which someone would need to be trained - not merely download an app.

"We're years down the line and the contents of [the bill] are out of date - there's so much missing," she says.

But for creator Gorkem, criminalising deepfaking would change things.

"If I could be traced online I would stop there and probably find another hobby," he says.

Being deepfaked and doxed had an impact on Kate's health and her ability to trust other people. She believes those behind the attacks weren't only trying to intimidate and humiliate her, but also to silence her. For a time, she stepped back from campaigning, questioning whether she could carry on speaking out about misogyny.

But now, she is all the more fired-up. She realised she cared too much to walk away.

"I'm not letting them win."

Deepfakes can be used to control women, and tech firms - including those who make apps that enable face-swapping - should be encouraged to put safeguards in place, she says.

"Any app should be able to detect sexual content."

"If companies have not put money, resources and time into ensuring their app isn't being used as a place to create sexual abuse content, they are being deliberately irresponsible. They are culpable."

Neither Gorkem, nor the man behind the largest deepfake website, are understood to have been involved in deepfaking Kate Isaacs.
line
What to do if you have been deepfaked

    Collect evidence - It might feel counter-intuitive, you want everything erased, but it's important to download videos and screengrab dates, timestamps, usernames and URLs. Put them in a secure folder, and password protect it
    Report accounts - Once you've collected the evidence, report what has happened to whatever platform it has appeared on
    Contact the police - It's important to log what's happened and share the evidence you have collected. Call the non-emergency number, 101
    Reach out for support and advice - The Revenge Porn helpline is open 1000-1600 Mon-Fri (excl bank holidays) on 0345 6000 459 or help@revengepornhelpline.org.uk

Source: #NotYourPorn Campaign
line
Related Topics

    Online Safety Bill
    Deepfakes
    Pornography

  News Services

On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts

    Contact   News

Best of   iPlayer

The timeless legacy of Coco Chanel

    Attribution

    COCO CHANEL UNBUTTONED

What does it take to be a soldier?

    Attribution

    SOLDIER

'I've suffered for such a long time'

    Attribution

    INSOMNIA AND ME

From buying antiques to selling online

    Attribution

    VINTAGE FRENCH FARMHOUSE

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Weather
    iPlayer
    Sounds
    C 
    CBeebies
    Food
    Bitesize
    Arts
    Taster
    Local
    Three

    Terms of Use
    About the  
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Parental Guidance
    Contact the  
    Make an editorial complaint
    Get Personalised Newsletters
    Why you can trust the  

© 2023  . The   is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

No, take me to settings
  Homepage

    Skip to content
    Accessibility Help

Sign in

    Notifications

    Home

News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize

    More menu

Search  

  News

    Home
    Cost of Living
    War in Ukraine
    Climate
    UK
    World
    Business
    Politics
    Culture
    Tech

More

    UK
    England
    N. Ireland
    Scotland
    Alba
    Wales
    Cymru
    Isle of Man
    Guernsey
    Jersey
    Local News

Call for urgent victim rights review after sexsomnia rape case

    Published

    11 October 2022

Jade McCrossen-Nethercott
Image caption,
The Crown Prosecution Service admitted it was wrong to drop Jade McCrossen-Nethercott's rape case
By Emma Ailes
UK Insight,   News

An urgent review of rights available to victims after their court cases are dropped has been urged by Labour.

It comes after the CPS apologised to a woman whose rape case was wrongfully closed over claims she had an episode of sexsomnia, a rare sleep condition.

The   found 60 cases in 2021/22 which the CPS admitted wrongly dropping, but the cases can no longer be pursued.

The CPS said decisions to halt cases were never taken lightly.

In all 60 cases, a victim won a review against proceedings being terminated, but this does not have the same strength as winning an appeal overturning the decision.

In each situation, the case had already been closed by the CPS "offering no evidence", which means the accused was found officially not guilty - despite never appearing in front of a jury.

Crucially, under the double jeopardy law, the cases cannot be reopened, even if a review requested by a victim finds it should have gone to trial.

Discovery of the cases up to September 2022 in England and Wales comes after the   reported the case of Jade McCrossen-Nethercott.

She is suing the CPS after her rape trial was dropped days before court - over defence claims she had had an episode of sexsomnia.
Media caption,

Jade was allowed to record the CPS meeting where she was told the rape case had been dropped.

Two sleep experts - one for the defence and one for the prosecution - concluded that it was possible she had had an isolated attack of the sleep disorder, which causes people to engage in sexual activity in their sleep.

After Ms McCrossen-Nethercott challenged the CPS decision under a system called the "victim's right to review" (VRR), an independent chief crown prosecutor found her case should have been taken to trial.

He said the jury would have been "more likely than not" to convict the defendant, which is one of the tests for bringing a prosecution.

But because the CPS had offered no evidence - meaning the defendant was formally acquitted - the case could not be reopened.

Instead, she received a letter of an apology from the chief prosecutor on behalf of the Crown Prosecution Service - which he accepted was likely to be of "little consolation" to her.

Labour said the case highlighted by the   showed the VRR system - which enables victims to challenge CPS decisions - was failing and urged the government to swiftly establish an inquiry into it.
Labour MP Jess Phillips sitting behind a microphoneImage source, Getty Images
Image caption,
Jess Phillips has urged the Attorney General to take action

In a letter to Attorney General Michael Ellis, shadow minister for domestic abuse and safeguarding Jess Phillips wrote: "I think that the average person in the country would be quite surprised to hear that a letter of sorrow is all an alleged rape victim can expect in cases where such errors are made.

"They would be further horrified to understand that it means that potentially dangerous offenders face no consequences."

She added Ms McCrossen-Nethercott's experience was "by no means an isolated case", with the VRR process identifying similar errors each year, "leaving victims of sexual and violent crimes with their own letters of sorrow".

When asked for comment, the Attorney General's office said it had received Ms Phillips's letter, "and will consider it and respond in due course".
Dropped cases

The Freedom of Information figures on dropped cases obtained by the   include four sexual offences and 31 "offences against the person", which cover a range of violent offences from harassment to murder.

Fraud, burglary and robbery cases were also among the terminated cases which, after victims asked for a review, the CPS later admitted should have been prosecuted.

The CPS said it had "huge sympathy" for victims whose cases could not be reopened because no evidence had been offered.

"We strive for justice in every possible case and decisions to halt them are never taken lightly," a spokesperson said.

In 2018, the High Court found that it was not unlawful for the CPS to close a case by offering no evidence before a victim was able to challenge the decision.

In his judgement, Lord Justice Holroyde concluded that allowing a victim's review before the prosecution was terminated would cause serious and unjustifiable delay in proceedings.

He added that the admission of error - and an apology - was an important outcome of a victim's right to review, even if the case could not be reopened.

The victim's right-to-review scheme gives complainants three months to seek a review of a CPS decision.

The CPS received 1,961 review requests in the year to March 2021. In 270 cases, the original decision was overturned.

The CPS said in many cases the prosecution could be reopened, however it was legally prevented from doing so if no evidence had been offered.

Dame Vera Baird, the former victim's commissioner for England and Wales, who recently resigned from the role, said the current right-to-review system was "unacceptable", and cases should be kept alive until a victim had been able to request a review.

"If the CPS don't change to help rather than hinder rape victims there must be legislation," she said.
  iPlayer

Sexsomnia: Case Closed?

When unexpected sleepwalking claims turn a rape case on its head, Jade fights back. Filmed over three years, this is the remarkable story of one woman's battle for justice. Will she win?

Watch now on   iPlayer (UK Only)
  iPlayer
Related Topics

    Crown Prosecution Service

More on this story

    'Claims I had sexsomnia destroyed my rape case'
        Published
        5 October 2022
    Jade McCrossen-Nethercott

Top Stories

    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
        Published
        5 hours ago

    Live. 

    Civilians flee northern Gaza as US says it is working with Israel on 'safe areas'

    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
        Published
        5 hours ago

Features

    Chris Mason: SNP leader struggling in political headwind
    First Minister Humza Yousaf takes First Minister's Questions in the Scottish Parliament

    Father saves daughter he hadn’t seen for six years from massacre
    A victim of the attack

    Rosenberg: Putin ready to benefit from Israel-Gaza war
    Vladimir Putin

    Watch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack. VideoWatch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack

Grodon Corera

Israel-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home. AudioIsrael-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home

    Attribution

    Sounds

    Newscast logo

    Critics say Scherzinger 'dazzles' in West End
    Nicole Scherzinger in Sunset Boulevard

    Weekly quiz: Which fat bear was crowned queen of the wild?
    Brown bear

    Three ways US Republican Speaker chaos ends
    Jim Jordan (left) and Patrick McHenry (right)

    Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants
    People wait by the key border crossing as trucks carrying goods destined for Afghanistan line up, following clashes between security forces of Pakistan and Afghanistan, in Torkham, Pakistan on September 07, 2023

Elsewhere on the  

    An epic tale of seduction, blood and immortality

    A sumptuous reinvention of Anne Rice's novel starting Jacob Anderson and Sam Reid
        Attribution

    iPlayer

Interview with the Vampire

Breathing your way to better health

Why using your nose could benefit your gums, lungs and even impact your memory!

    Attribution

    Sounds

Just One Thing

From dashcam scams to payroll con confessions

Follow the teams pursuing criminals who steal billions from the government, taxpayers and charities

    Attribution

    iPlayer

Fraud Squad

How to beat the insurance hikes

Top tips on how to get the best deals on your car and home insurance renewals

    Attribution

        Sounds
    The Martin Lewis Podcast

Most Read

    1
    Flintoff agrees compensation over Top Gear crash
    2
    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
    3
    Same-sex couples facing 'gay tax' to start family
    4
    Britain's Got Talent star sues US show after injuries
    5
    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
    6
      journalists held at gunpoint by Israeli police
    7
    Bank boss warns world facing 'most dangerous time'
    8
    Glorify Hamas and you break law - terror watchdog
    9
    Texts reveal No 10 staff's Carrie Johnson complaints
    10
    France raises security level after school attack

  News Services

On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts

    Contact   News

Best of   iPlayer

The timeless legacy of Coco Chanel

    Attribution

    COCO CHANEL UNBUTTONED

What does it take to be a soldier?

    Attribution

    SOLDIER

'I've suffered for such a long time'

    Attribution

    INSOMNIA AND ME

From buying antiques to selling online

    Attribution

    VINTAGE FRENCH FARMHOUSE

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Weather
    iPlayer
    Sounds
    C 
    CBeebies
    Food
    Bitesize
    Arts
    Taster
    Local
    Three

    Terms of Use
    About the  
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Parental Guidance
    Contact the  
    Make an editorial complaint
    Get Personalised Newsletters
    Why you can trust the  

© 2023  . The   is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

No, take me to settings
  Homepage

    Skip to content
    Accessibility Help

Sign in

    Notifications

    Home

News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize

    More menu

Search  

  News

    Home
    Cost of Living
    War in Ukraine
    Climate
    UK
    World
    Business
    Politics
    Culture
    Tech

More

    Wales
    Wales Politics
    Wales Business
    North West
    North East
    Mid
    South West
    South East
    Cymru
    Local News

Britain's Got Talent star Jonathan Goodwin sues US show after injuries

    Published

    4 hours ago

Jonathan Goodwin was left paralysed after a stunt went wrong his fiancee saidImage source, Getty Images
Image caption,
Jonathan Goodwin was left paralysed after a stunt went wrong, his fiancee said
By Thamayanthi McAllister
  News

An escapologist who was left paralysed during rehearsals of America's Got Talent: Extreme has begun legal action against the show's producers.

Jonathan Goodwin was left with life-changing injuries in October 2021, after getting crushed between two burning cars.

In a statement his lawyer said the production was "rushed, chaotic" and staff lacked experience and expertise.

Fremantle Media has said it does not comment on litigation matters.

NBC has also been asked to comment.

    Strictly star with cancer tells of hair loss agony
    Major film studio sold to US production company
    50 Cent sponsors Welsh under-14s football team

The accident happened on 14 October 2021 at the Atlanta Motor Speedway in Hampton, Georgia, during rehearsals for the spin-off show.

He was supposed to escape a strait jacket while upside down 30ft in the air in between two suspended cars.

Instead, Mr Goodwin became crushed between them as they caught on fire and he fell to the ground.

He was left with a dislocated spinal cord, which left him a paraplegic.

He also had internal organ injuries, lost his left kidney and had fractures to his legs, ribs, and shoulders as well as third-degree burns.

Prior to accident, the stunt ace had appeared in Britain's Got Talent in 2019.
Jonathan Goodwin has performed at the theatre as one of The IllusionistsImage source, PA
Image caption,
Mr Goodwin has performed in London's West End as one of The Illusionists

He also starred in an award-winning Broadway theatre show for six years.

His lawyer Stuart Fraenkel, said: "This is yet another example of the entertainment industry putting profits and ratings before safety.

"It is the Rust and Resident Evil sets once again.

"The producers and staff working on this show could have taken a number of simple steps to ensure Jonathan's safety. Instead, the production was rushed, chaotic and staffed by a team that lacked the necessary expertise and experience. 

"Jonathan will be in a wheelchair for the rest of his life because there were inadequate safety practices, protocols and procedures in place to protect him. 

"He is bringing this claim to bring attention to an ongoing lack of safety problem in the entertainment industry.

"He hopes that by bringing this claim, lessons will be learned, changes will be made and others in the future will not be exposed to unnecessary risks and danger."

The stunt ace is engaged to Sherlock actress Amanda Abbington.

Speaking about his injuries, Ms Abbington, 48, told Jay Rayner's Out To Lunch podcast: "Unless there's a kind of stem cell surgery, or that thing that Elon Musk is designing with the little chip, he'll be like that forever."

Mr Goodwin, originally from Pembrokeshire, has remained "positive and upbeat, and so strong", she added.

"His courage and his strength is something that I just aspire to be like.

"He's just incredible, honestly, like so happy, just like a very happy, positive human being, just liquid sunshine. He's amazing."

Jonathan has since retrained as a hypnotherapist and is an ambassador for the Spinal Injuries Association in the UK. 

The couple plans to marry this summer.
Related Topics

    Wales
    Television
    Disability

More on this story

    Britain's Got Talent star paralysed after stunt
        Published
        4 May 2022
    Jonathan Goodwin

    Stuntman thought Star Wars call 'was a prank'
        Published
        20 December 2021
    Justin Pearson

    US daredevil dies during world record attempt
        Published
        18 June 2021
    Facebook image of Alex Harvill kneeling near a US flag

    Superfan finally enjoys 6,000th rollercoaster ride
        Published
        24 October 2021
    A super fan takes his 6,000th ride on a wooden rollercoaster after Covid delayed the milestone.

Top Stories

    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
        Published
        5 hours ago

    Live. 

    Civilians flee northern Gaza as US says it is working with Israel on 'safe areas'

    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
        Published
        5 hours ago

Features

    Chris Mason: SNP leader struggling in political headwind
    First Minister Humza Yousaf takes First Minister's Questions in the Scottish Parliament

    Father saves daughter he hadn’t seen for six years from massacre
    A victim of the attack

    Rosenberg: Putin ready to benefit from Israel-Gaza war
    Vladimir Putin

    Watch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack. VideoWatch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack

Grodon Corera

Israel-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home. AudioIsrael-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home

    Attribution

    Sounds

    Newscast logo

    Critics say Scherzinger 'dazzles' in West End
    Nicole Scherzinger in Sunset Boulevard

    Weekly quiz: Which fat bear was crowned queen of the wild?
    Brown bear

    Three ways US Republican Speaker chaos ends
    Jim Jordan (left) and Patrick McHenry (right)

    Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants
    People wait by the key border crossing as trucks carrying goods destined for Afghanistan line up, following clashes between security forces of Pakistan and Afghanistan, in Torkham, Pakistan on September 07, 2023

Elsewhere on the  

    An epic tale of seduction, blood and immortality

    A sumptuous reinvention of Anne Rice's novel starting Jacob Anderson and Sam Reid
        Attribution

    iPlayer

Interview with the Vampire

Breathing your way to better health

Why using your nose could benefit your gums, lungs and even impact your memory!

    Attribution

    Sounds

Just One Thing

From dashcam scams to payroll con confessions

Follow the teams pursuing criminals who steal billions from the government, taxpayers and charities

    Attribution

    iPlayer

Fraud Squad

How to beat the insurance hikes

Top tips on how to get the best deals on your car and home insurance renewals

    Attribution

        Sounds
    The Martin Lewis Podcast

Most Read

    1
    Flintoff agrees compensation over Top Gear crash
    2
    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
    3
    Same-sex couples facing 'gay tax' to start family
    4
    Britain's Got Talent star sues US show after injuries
    5
    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
    6
      journalists held at gunpoint by Israeli police
    7
    Bank boss warns world facing 'most dangerous time'
    8
    Glorify Hamas and you break law - terror watchdog
    9
    Texts reveal No 10 staff's Carrie Johnson complaints
    10
    Man, 76, admits stealing Wizard of Oz ruby slippers

  News Services

On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts

    Contact   News

Best of   iPlayer

The timeless legacy of Coco Chanel

    Attribution

    COCO CHANEL UNBUTTONED

What does it take to be a soldier?

    Attribution

    SOLDIER

'I've suffered for such a long time'

    Attribution

    INSOMNIA AND ME

From buying antiques to selling online

    Attribution

    VINTAGE FRENCH FARMHOUSE

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Weather
    iPlayer
    Sounds
    C 
    CBeebies
    Food
    Bitesize
    Arts
    Taster
    Local
    Three

    Terms of Use
    About the  
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Parental Guidance
    Contact the  
    Make an editorial complaint
    Get Personalised Newsletters
    Why you can trust the  

© 2023  . The   is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Let us know you agree to cookies

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. Please let us know if you agree to all of these cookies.

No, take me to settings
  Homepage

    Skip to content
    Accessibility Help

Sign in

    Notifications

    Home

News
Sport
Weather
iPlayer
Sounds
Bitesize

    More menu

Search  

  News

    Home
    Cost of Living
    War in Ukraine
    Climate
    UK
    World
    Business
    Politics
    Culture
    Tech

More

    Wales
    Wales Politics
    Wales Business
    North West
    North East
    Mid
    South West
    South East
    Cymru
    Local News

Rugby World Cup: Wales fans confident as Argentina game nears

    Published

    57 minutes ago

Wales fans in Marseilles are quietly confident of a win. Pictured is a man wearing a coat with a Welsh dragon printed across it
Image caption,
Wales fans in Marseilles are quietly confident of a win
By Iolo Cheung
  News

There is quiet confidence among Wales fans in Marseilles, even if they are not predicting a thumping victory over Argentina.

With Warren Gatland's side having navigated their way through the pool stage, they enter the quarter final as favourites.

Some supporters are just happy to be here after strike action in France made travel tricky.

But Kevin Davies will be cheering on his son, Gareth Davies, on Saturday.
Kevin Davies (right), the father of Wales player Gareth Davies, with friends
Image caption,
Kevin Davies (right) is supporting his son, Wales player Gareth Davies

One of Wales' star players, he set a new scrum-half record of eight tries at World Cups when he scored against Australia.

"The record he needs to go for now is the four more to beat the great Sir Gareth Edwards," he said.

    S4C boss sacked after alleged abuse of Mike Phillips
    Relive all flashmobs by Wales' fans at Rugby World Cup
    Fans fly to France in plane weighing less than Wales' scrum

"I've told him if he does, I'll give him a little bonus.

"It's his third World Cup now, and he seems to pick up steam in every single one, which is always a good time to do it."

One family at the match will have divided loyalties.
Alvarez Kairelis family at a game in Cardiff
Image caption,
Former Argentine lock Rimas Alvarez Kairelis, second left, said Wales are the favourites

Former Argentine lock Rimas Alvarez Kairelis met Welsh wife Lisa after a 2001 international match in Cardiff.

They now live in Perpignan, in France, where Rivas is a member of the local side's coaching staff.

"There'll definitely be no impartiality on Saturday - I'll definitely be for Wales, [he will] definitely be for Argentina," said Lisa.

Rivas accepted Wales were the favourites.

"They are building a really good spirit in the group which could help in the next matches," he said.

He believed Argentina had not lived up to potential.

"They haven't played like we were expecting," said Rivas, referring to their opening defeat to England.

He added: "Now they have nothing to lose, they've passed the first stage, and I hope they make a good match."
Dan Biggar's former teacher Dean Mason (right) remembers him as a "massive talent" from a young age
Image caption,
Dan Biggar's former teacher Dean Mason (right) remembers him as a "massive talent" from a young age

Teacher Dean Mason remembers fly-half Dan Biggar and full-back Liam Williams from Swansea's Gowerton Comprehensive.

Biggar has announced he will retire after the tournament and Dean doesn't want this to be his last appearance in a red jersey.

"As a school we're very proud of what those two lads have achieved on the rugby pitch," he said.

Biggar, he said, was a "massive talent" from a young age, but Williams' gifts were not immediately evident.

"He's a real example of someone with a real determination to succeed," said Dean.

Marseille's old port area has been filling up with red shirts and songs.
Phil Beddoe (centre) said his trip was disrupted by French strikes
Image caption,
Phil Beddoe (centre) said his trip was disrupted by French strikes

Phil Beddoe was among fans whose travel plans were thrown into chaos by French strikes.

After forking out another £100 for new flights, he arrived in Marseille on Friday morning but said it was "worth every penny".

He said: "We've invested so much in following the team around France, so there was never going to be an excuse.

"They can strike as much as they want, but we'll find a way."

Gary and Elen, from Denbigh, were already in France, but caught an earlier Marseille train to dodge disruption.

Gary was feeling confident.

"You have to with Gatland's track record and what he's achieved in previous World Cups," he said.

Elen believed the side was strong.

"Hopefully we'll start well and break them down," she said.
Elen and Gary were feeling upbeat about the match
Image caption,
Elen and Gary were feeling upbeat about the match

Danielle, who has travelled from Mallorca, was excited to see Welsh fans singing before the match.

She said: "It's amazing, everyone's pumped up, the choir's coming in - I think Wales are going to smash it today."

Ryan from Mountain Ash, in Rhondda Cynon Taf, was more cautious.

He said: "Argentina have played the likes of Australia and New Zealand often and beaten them. So, any team that can do that, you have to respect.

He remained hopeful.

"It's knockout rugby now, it's about the here and now," he said.
Related Topics

    Wales

More on this story

    Why the Wales and Brittany anthems sound the same
        Published
        6 days ago
    Reporter Iolo Cheung speaking directly to the camera

    Wales fans react with shock and joy to Australia win
        Published
        25 September
    Wales fan

    Wales not keeping up with Joneses in World Cup squad
        Published
        6 September
    Alun Wyn Jones

Top Stories

    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
        Published
        5 hours ago

    Live. 

    Civilians flee northern Gaza as US says it is working with Israel on 'safe areas'

    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
        Published
        5 hours ago

Features

    Chris Mason: SNP leader struggling in political headwind
    First Minister Humza Yousaf takes First Minister's Questions in the Scottish Parliament

    Father saves daughter he hadn’t seen for six years from massacre
    A victim of the attack

    Rosenberg: Putin ready to benefit from Israel-Gaza war
    Vladimir Putin

    Watch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack. VideoWatch: Breaking down the video of huge Hamas attack

Grodon Corera

Israel-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home. AudioIsrael-Gaza: One Million Told To Leave Home

    Attribution

    Sounds

    Newscast logo

    Critics say Scherzinger 'dazzles' in West End
    Nicole Scherzinger in Sunset Boulevard

    Weekly quiz: Which fat bear was crowned queen of the wild?
    Brown bear

    Three ways US Republican Speaker chaos ends
    Jim Jordan (left) and Patrick McHenry (right)

    Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants
    People wait by the key border crossing as trucks carrying goods destined for Afghanistan line up, following clashes between security forces of Pakistan and Afghanistan, in Torkham, Pakistan on September 07, 2023

Elsewhere on the  

    An epic tale of seduction, blood and immortality

    A sumptuous reinvention of Anne Rice's novel starting Jacob Anderson and Sam Reid
        Attribution

    iPlayer

Interview with the Vampire

Breathing your way to better health

Why using your nose could benefit your gums, lungs and even impact your memory!

    Attribution

    Sounds

Just One Thing

From dashcam scams to payroll con confessions

Follow the teams pursuing criminals who steal billions from the government, taxpayers and charities

    Attribution

    iPlayer

Fraud Squad

How to beat the insurance hikes

Top tips on how to get the best deals on your car and home insurance renewals

    Attribution

        Sounds
    The Martin Lewis Podcast

Most Read

    1
    Flintoff agrees compensation over Top Gear crash
    2
    'Oh god, they’re here’: Hamas massacre captured on Israeli mothers’ WhatsApp group
    3
    Same-sex couples facing 'gay tax' to start family
    4
    Britain's Got Talent star sues US show after injuries
    5
    Humza Yousaf says Israel is 'going too far' in Gaza
    6
      journalists held at gunpoint by Israeli police
    7
    Bank boss warns world facing 'most dangerous time'
    8
    Glorify Hamas and you break law - terror watchdog
    9
    Texts reveal No 10 staff's Carrie Johnson complaints
    10
    Man, 76, admits stealing Wizard of Oz ruby slippers

  News Services

On your mobile
On smart speakers
Get news alerts

    Contact   News

Best of   iPlayer

The timeless legacy of Coco Chanel

    Attribution

    COCO CHANEL UNBUTTONED

What does it take to be a soldier?

    Attribution

    SOLDIER

'I've suffered for such a long time'

    Attribution

    INSOMNIA AND ME

From buying antiques to selling online

    Attribution

    VINTAGE FRENCH FARMHOUSE

    Home
    News
    Sport
    Weather
    iPlayer
    Sounds
    C 
    CBeebies
    Food
    Bitesize
    Arts
    Taster
    Local
    Three

    Terms of Use
    About the 
    Privacy Policy
    Cookies
    Accessibility Help
    Parental Guidance
    Contact the  
    Make an editorial complaint
    Get Personalised Newsletters
    Why you can trust the  

© 2023  . The   is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

Legal

    Hardware
    Software
    Sales & Support
    Internet Services
    Intellectual Property
    More Resources

United Kingdom, English Choose your country/region

      Media Services Terms and Conditions

    These terms and conditions create a contract between you and   (the “Agreement”). Please read the Agreement carefully. 

    TABLE OF CONTENTS

    A. INTRODUCTION

    B. PAYMENTS, TAXES, AND REFUNDS

    C. ACCOUNT

    D. PRIVACY

    E. SERVICES AND CONTENT USAGE RULES

    F. TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION OF SERVICES

    G. DOWNLOADS

    H. SUBSCRIPTIONS

    I. CONTENT AND SERVICE AVAILABILITY

    J. THIRD-PARTY DEVICES AND EQUIPMENT

    K. YOUR SUBMISSIONS TO OUR SERVICES 

    L. FAMILY SHARING 

    M. SEASON PASS AND MULTI-PASS 

    N. ADDITIONAL APP STORE TERMS 

    O. ADDITIONAL TERMS FOR APP STORE,    ,   PODCASTS, AND SELECT CONTENT   

    P. ADDITIONAL   MUSIC TERMS

    Q. ADDITIONAL   FITNESS+ TERMS  

    R. CARRIER MEMBERSHIP

    S. MISC. TERMS APPLICABLE TO ALL SERVICES

    A. INTRODUCTION

    This Agreement governs your use of  ’s services (“Services” – e.g., and where available, App Store,   Arcade,    ,   Fitness+,   Music,   News,   News+,   One,   Podcasts,   Podcasts Subscriptions,   TV,   TV+,   TV Channels, Game Center, iTunes), through which you can buy, get, license, rent or subscribe to content, Apps (as defined below), and other in-app services (collectively, “Content”). Content may be offered through the Services by   or a third party. Our Services are available for your use in your country or territory of residence (“Home Country”). By creating an account for use of the Services in a particular country or territory you are specifying it as your Home Country. To use our Services, you need compatible hardware, software (latest version recommended and sometimes required) and Internet access (fees may apply). Our Services’ performance may be affected by these factors.

    B. PAYMENTS, TAXES AND REFUNDS

    You can acquire Content on our Services for free or for a charge, either of which is referred to as a “Transaction.” By each Transaction you acquire a license to use the Content only. Each Transaction is an electronic contract between you and  , and/or you and the entity providing the Content on our Services. However, if you are a customer of   Distribution International Ltd., then   Distribution International Ltd. is the merchant of record for some Content you acquire from    ,   Podcasts, or App Store as displayed on the product page and/or during the acquisition process for the relevant Service. In such case, you acquire the Content from   Distribution International Ltd., which is licensed by the Content provider (e.g., App Provider (as defined below), book publisher, etc.). When you make your first Transaction, we will ask you to choose how frequently we should ask for your password for future Transactions. On applicable   hardware, if you enable Touch ID for Transactions, we will ask you to authenticate all Transactions with your fingerprint, and if you enable Face ID for Transactions, we will ask you to authenticate all Transactions using facial recognition. Manage your password settings at any time by following these instructions: https://support. .com/HT204030. 

      will charge your selected payment method for any paid Transactions, including any applicable taxes. If you have also added it to your   Wallet,   may charge your selected payment method in   Wallet using   Pay. You can associate multiple payment methods with your   ID, and you agree that   may store and charge those payment methods for Transactions. Your primary payment method appears at the top of your account settings payments page. 

    If your primary payment method cannot be charged for any reason (such as expiration or insufficient funds), you authorize   to attempt to charge your other eligible payment methods in order from top to bottom as they appear on your account settings payments page. If we cannot charge you, you remain responsible for any uncollected amounts, and we may attempt to charge you again or request that you provide another payment method. If you pre-order Content, you will be charged when the Content is delivered to you (unless you cancel prior to the Content’s availability). In accordance with local law,   may automatically update your payment information regarding your payment methods if provided such information by the payment networks or your financial institutions. Terms related to store credit and gift cards/codes are available here: https://www. .com/legal/internet-services/itunes/giftcards/. For more details about how Transactions are billed, please visit https://support. .com/HT201359. You agree to receipt of all invoices in an electronic format, which may include email. Content prices may change at any time. If technical problems prevent or unreasonably delay delivery of Content, your exclusive and sole remedy is either replacement of the Content or refund of the price paid, as determined by  . From time to time,   may suspend or cancel payment or refuse a refund request if we find evidence of fraud, abuse, or unlawful or other manipulative behavior that entitles   to a corresponding counterclaim. 

    Right of cancellation: If you choose to cancel your order, you may do so within fourteen (14) days of when you received your receipt, without giving any reason.

    To cancel your order, you must inform us of your decision. To ensure immediate processing we recommend you use Report a Problem to cancel all items with the exception of Complete My Season, which can be cancelled by contacting   Support. Subscription services can only be cancelled following the initial subscription and not upon each automatic renewal. You also have the right to inform us using the model cancellation form below or by making any other clear statement. If you use Report a Problem we will communicate acknowledgement of receipt of your cancellation to you without delay.

    To meet the cancellation deadline, you must send your communication of cancellation before the fourteen (14)day period has expired.

    Effects of cancellation: We will reimburse you no later than 14 days from the day on which we receive your cancellation notice. We will use the same means of payment as you used for the Transaction, and you will not incur any fees for such reimbursement.

    Exception to the right of cancellation: You cannot cancel your order for the supply of Content if the delivery has started upon your request and acknowledgement that you thereby lose your cancellation right.

    Model cancellation form:

    - To   Distribution International Ltd., iTunes Store Customer Support, Hollyhill Industrial Estate, Hollyhill, Cork, Republic of Ireland, rightofwithdrawal@ .com:

    - I hereby give notice that I withdraw from my contract for the following:

    [INSERT ORDER ID, ITEM, ARTIST AND TYPE]

    - Ordered on [INSERT DATE] / received on [INSERT DATE]

    - Name of consumer

    - Address of consumer

    - Email address of consumer

    - Date

    C. ACCOUNT

    Using our Services and accessing your Content may require an   ID. An   ID is the account you use across  ’s ecosystem. Use of Game Center is subject to this Agreement and also requires a Game Center account. Your account is valuable, and you are responsible for maintaining its confidentiality and security.   is not responsible for any losses arising from the unauthorized use of your account. Please contact   if you suspect that your account has been compromised.

    You must be age thirteen (13) (or equivalent minimum age in your Home Country, as set forth in the   ID creation process) to create an account and use our Services.   IDs for persons under this age can be created by a parent or legal guardian using Family Sharing or by an approved educational institution, though certain devices may prevent such   IDs from accessing certain Services on the device. A parent or legal guardian who is creating an account for a minor should review this Agreement with the minor to ensure that they both understand it. 

    You may add, notify, or remove a Legacy Contact for your   ID as described in http://support. .com/HT212360. A Legacy Contact’s access to your   ID is limited as described in http://support. .com/HT212361. 

    D. PRIVACY

    Your use of our Services is subject to  ’s Privacy Policy, which is available at https://www. .com/legal/privacy/.

    E. SERVICES AND CONTENT USAGE RULES

    Your use of the Services and Content must follow the rules set forth in this section (“Usage Rules”). Any other use of the Services and Content is a material breach of this Agreement.   may monitor your use of the Services and Content to ensure that you are following these Usage Rules.

    All Services:

    - You may use the Services and Content only for personal, noncommercial purposes (except as set forth in the App Store Content section below or as otherwise specified by  ).

    -  ’s delivery of Services or Content does not transfer any commercial or promotional use rights to you, and does not constitute a grant or waiver of any rights of the copyright owners.

    - You can use Content from up to five (5) different   IDs on each device.

    - For any Service, you can have up to ten (10) devices (but only a maximum of five (5) computers) signed in with your   ID at one time, though simultaneous streams or downloads of Content may be limited to a lower number of devices as set out below under   Music and   TV content. Each computer must also be authorized using the same   ID (to learn more about authorization of computers, visit https://support. .com/HT201251). Devices can be associated with a different   ID once every ninety (90) days.

    - You may not manipulate play counts, downloads, ratings, or reviews via any means — such as (i) using a bot, script, or automated process; or (ii) providing or accepting any kind of compensation or incentive.

    - You may not use any software, device, automated process, or any similar or equivalent manual process to scrape, copy, or perform measurement, analysis, or monitoring of, any portion of the Content or Services.

    - It is your responsibility not to lose, destroy, or damage Content once downloaded. We encourage you to back up your Content regularly.

    - You may not tamper with or circumvent any security technology included with the Services or Content.

    - You may access our Services only using  ’s software, and may not modify or use modified versions of such software.

    - Video Content requires an HDCP connection.

    Audio and Video Content Sales and Rentals:

    - You can use Digital Rights Management (DRM)-free Content on a reasonable number of compatible devices that you own or control. DRM-protected Content can be used on up to five (5) computers and any number of devices that you sync to from those computers.

    - Content rentals are viewable on a single device at a time, and must be played within thirty (30) days, and completed within forty-eight (48) hours of the start of play (stopping, pausing or restarting does not extend this period).

    - You may burn an audio playlist of purchased music to disc for listening purposes up to seven (7) times; this limitation does not apply to DRM-free Content. Other Content may not be burned to disc. You may use the disc to which you have burned your Content in the same ways in which you may use a disc purchased from a retail store, subject to local copyright laws.

    - Purchased Content will generally remain available for you to download, redownload, or otherwise access from  . Though it is unlikely, subsequent to your purchase, Content may be removed from the Services (for instance, because the provider removed it) and become unavailable for further download or access from  . To ensure your ability to continue enjoying Content, we encourage you to download all purchased Content to a device in your possession and to back it up.

    App Store Content:

    - The term “Apps” includes apps and App Clips for any   platform and/or operating system, including any in-app purchases, extensions (such as keyboards), stickers, and subscriptions made available in such apps or App Clips.

    - Individuals acting on behalf of a commercial enterprise, governmental organization or educational institution (an “Enterprise”) may download and sync non-Arcade Apps for use by either (i) a single individual on one (1) or more devices owned or controlled by an Enterprise; or (ii) multiple individuals on a single shared device owned or controlled by an Enterprise. For the sake of clarity, each device used serially or collectively by multiple users requires a separate license.

      Music:

    - An Individual   Music membership allows you to stream on a single device at a time; a Family membership allows you or your Family members to stream on up to six (6) devices at a time.

      Arcade:

    -   Arcade Apps may only be downloaded, or redownloaded, with a valid   Arcade trial or subscription.

    - If your subscription ends, Apps downloaded via   Arcade will no longer be accessible to you.

      TV Content:

    - For most channels, you can stream video Content on up to three (3) devices simultaneously. 

    - Learn more about   TV Content Usage Rules at https://support. .com/HT210074.

    F. TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION OF SERVICES

    If you fail, or   suspects that you have failed, to comply with any of the provisions of this Agreement,   may, without notice to you: (i) terminate this Agreement and/or your   ID, and you will remain liable for all amounts due under your   ID up to and including the date of termination; and/or (ii) terminate your license to the software; and/or (iii) preclude your access to the Services.

      further reserves the right to modify, suspend, or discontinue the Services (or any part or Content thereof) at any time with or without notice to you, and   will not be liable to you or to any third party should it exercise such rights. To the extent possible,   will warn you in advance of any modification, suspension or discontinuance of the Service. Termination of the Service will not affect the Content that you have already acquired. However, you may be unable to authorize additional computers to use the Content.

    G. DOWNLOADS

    You may be limited in the amount of Content you may download, and some downloaded Content may expire after a given amount of time after downloaded or first played. Certain Content may not be available for download at all.

    You may be able to redownload previously acquired Content (“Redownload”) to your devices that are signed in with the same   ID (“Associated Devices”). You can see Content types available for Redownload in your Home Country at https://support. .com/HT204632. Content may not be available for Redownload if that Content is no longer offered on our Services.

    Content also may be removed from our Services at any time (for instance, because the provider removed it), after which it cannot be downloaded, redownloaded, or otherwise accessed from  .

    H. SUBSCRIPTIONS

    The Services and certain Apps may allow you to purchase access to Content or Services on a subscription basis (“Paid Subscriptions”). Paid Subscriptions automatically renew until cancelled in the Manage Subscriptions section of your account settings. To learn more about cancelling your subscriptions, visit https://support. .com/HT202039. You will be notified if the price of a Paid Subscription increases and, if required, your consent will be required to continue. You will be charged no more than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the start of the latest Paid Subscription period. If we cannot charge your payment method for any reason (such as expiration or insufficient funds), and you have not cancelled the Paid Subscription, you remain responsible for any uncollected amounts, and we will attempt to charge the payment method as you may update your payment method information. This may result in a change to the start of your next Paid Subscription period and may change the date on which you are billed for each period, as displayed on your receipt. We reserve the right to cancel your Paid Subscription if we are unable to successfully charge your payment method to renew your subscription. Certain Paid Subscriptions may offer a free trial prior to charging your payment method. If you decide to unsubscribe from a Paid Subscription before we start charging your payment method, cancel the subscription at least twenty-four (24) hours before the free trial ends.

    If you start a free trial to a Paid Subscription offered by   as Content provider (an “  Paid Subscription”) and cancel before it ends, you cannot reactivate the free trial.

    Free trials or free offers to   Paid Subscriptions, excluding iCloud, cannot be combined with any free trials or offers of   One. If you are in a free trial or free offer for any   Paid Subscriptions, and you subscribe to   One, your free trial(s) or offer(s) will not be paused even if you have access to such   Paid Subscription(s) through your   One subscription. You acknowledge that your free trial or free offer may expire while you are a Paid Subscriber to   One, and   shall have no obligation to reinstate, reimburse, or otherwise compensate you for any part of such expired free trial or free offer.

    When your Paid Subscription to any Service or Content ends, you will lose access to any functionality or Content of that Service that requires a Paid Subscription.

    I. CONTENT AND SERVICE AVAILABILITY

    Terms found in this Agreement that relate to Services, Content types, features or functionality not available in your Home Country are not applicable to you unless and until they become available to you. To see the Content types available to you in your Home Country, go to the Services or visit https://support. .com/HT204411. Certain Services and Content available to you in your Home Country may not be available to you when traveling outside of your Home Country except if required by law.

    J. THIRD-PARTY DEVICES AND EQUIPMENT

    You may not be able to use all features of the Services when accessing them on a non- -branded device. Additionally, certain Services may require, direct, or suggest you use third-party equipment in some circumstances and/or for certain activities; such use is subject to the terms and conditions of such equipment and should be made in accordance with the applicable manufacturer’s instructions. By using the Services, you agree that   may automatically download and install minor updates to its software on third-party equipment from time to time.

    K. YOUR SUBMISSIONS TO OUR SERVICES

    Our Services may allow you to submit or post materials such as comments, ratings and reviews, pictures, videos, and podcasts (including associated metadata and artwork). Your use of such features must comply with the Submissions Guidelines below, which may be updated from time to time, and if we become aware of materials that violate our Submission Guidelines we will remove them. If you see materials that do not comply with the Submissions Guidelines, including any offensive, abusive, or illegal content, please let us know at reportaproblem. .com or by contacting   Support. Except to the extent prohibited by law, you hereby grant   a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual, nonexclusive license to use the materials you submit within the Services and related marketing as well as to use the materials you submit for   internal purposes.   may monitor and decide to remove or edit any submitted material, including via automated content filters and/or human review.

    Submissions Guidelines: You may not use the Services to:

    - post any materials that (i) you do not have permission, right or license to use, or (ii) infringe on the rights of any third party;

    - post objectionable, offensive, unlawful, deceptive, inaccurate, or harmful content;

    - post personal, private or confidential information belonging to others;

    - request personal information from a minor;

    - impersonate or misrepresent your affiliation with another person, or entity;

    - post or transmit spam, including but not limited to unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, or informational announcements;

    - post, modify, or remove a rating or review in exchange for any kind of compensation or incentive; 

    - post a dishonest, abusive, harmful, misleading, or bad-faith rating or review, or a rating or review that is irrelevant to the Content being reviewed;

    - plan or engage in any illegal, fraudulent, or manipulative activity.

    L. FAMILY SHARING

    The organizer of a Family (“Organizer”) must be eighteen (18) years (or the equivalent age of majority in their Home Country) or older and the parent or legal guardian of any Family member under age thirteen (13) (or the equivalent minimum age in their Home Country as set forth in the registration process).   devices are required for access to all of the Family Sharing features. Family Sharing allows eligible subscriptions to be shared among up to six (6) members of a Family. To learn more about Family Sharing visit: https://support. .com/HT201060.

    Purchase Sharing: Family Sharing’s Purchase Sharing feature allows eligible Content to be shared among up to six (6) members of a Family. The Organizer invites other members to participate, and agrees to pay for all Transactions initiated by Family members. The Organizer’s eligible payment methods are used to pay for any Transaction initiated by a Family member (except when the Family member’s account has store credit, which is always used first). Family members are acting as agents for the Organizer when the Organizer’s eligible payment methods are used. The Organizer hereby agrees: (1) to pay for such Transactions; (2) that Transactions initiated by Family members are authorized; and (3) Transactions will be charged to eligible payment methods in the manner indicated in Section B above. Organizers are responsible for complying with their payment method contracts, and assume all risk related to sharing access to their eligible payment methods with Family members. A receipt or invoice for any Family member Transaction is sent to the initiating Family member and, if billed to the Organizer’s payment method, also to the Organizer.

    Ask to Buy: Ask to Buy is a feature that allows an Organizer to approve Transactions initiated by a Family member under age eighteen (18) (or the equivalent age of majority in their Home Country). Content shared by Family members or acquired via content codes generally is not subject to Ask to Buy; content codes facilitating access to subscriptions are subject to Ask to Buy. The Organizer must be the parent or legal guardian of any Family member for whom Ask to Buy is activated. Ask to Buy is enabled by default for any Family member under the age of thirteen (13) (or the equivalent minimum age in their Home Country) and stays on until deactivated by the parent or legal guardian. If Ask to Buy is turned off after the Family member turns eighteen (18) years old (or reaches the age of majority in their Home Country), it cannot be turned on anymore. Ask to Buy does not require Purchase Sharing to be enabled.

    Family Member changes: When a Family member leaves or is removed from the Family, the remaining Family members may no longer be able to access the former member’s Content, including Content acquired with the Organizer’s payment method.

    Family Sharing Rules: You can only belong to one (1) Family at a time, and may join any Family no more than twice per year. You can change the   ID you associate with a Family no more than once every ninety (90) days. All Family members must share the same Home Country. Not all Content, including In-App Purchases, subscriptions, and some previously acquired Apps, are eligible for Purchase Sharing.   TV+,   TV Channels,   One Family,   One Premier,   Music Family,   Arcade,   News+, and   Fitness+ subscriptions are automatically enabled for Family Sharing. Subscriptions shared by a Family may be subject to Content usage limitations on a per subscription basis.

    M. SERIES PASS AND MULTI-PASS

    A Pass allows you to purchase and receive television Content as it becomes available. A Series Pass applies to television Content that has a limited number of episodes per series; a Multi-Pass applies to television Content that is available on an ongoing basis. The full price of a Series Pass or Multi-Pass is charged at the time of the Transaction. Series Pass or Multi-Pass Content is available for download up to ninety (90) days after the last episode becomes available. If a Content provider delivers to   fewer TV episodes than planned when you purchased a Series Pass, we will credit to your   ID the retail value of the corresponding number of episodes that were not provided to  .

    N. ADDITIONAL APP STORE TERMS (EXCLUDING   ARCADE APPS)

    LICENSE OF APP STORE CONTENT

    App licenses are provided to you by   or a third party developer (“App Provider”).   acts as an agent for App Providers in operating the App Store and is not a party to the sales contract or user agreement between you and the App Provider. However, if you are a customer of   Distribution International Ltd., then the merchant of record is   Distribution International Ltd., which means that you acquire the App license from   Distribution International Ltd., but the App is licensed by the App Provider. An App licensed by   is an “  App;” an App licensed by an App Provider is a “Third Party App". Any App that you acquire is governed by the Licensed Application End User License Agreement (“Standard EULA”) set forth below, unless   or the App Provider provides an overriding custom license agreement (“Custom EULA”). Subject to local law, the App Provider of any Third Party App is solely responsible for its content and warranties, as well as any claims that you may have related to the Third Party App. You acknowledge and agree that   is a third-party beneficiary of the Standard EULA or Custom EULA applicable to each Third Party App and may therefore enforce such agreement. Certain Apps, such as stickers and iMessage apps, may not appear on the device springboard but can be accessed and used in the Messages app drawer.

    IN-APP PURCHASES

    Apps may offer content, services or functionality for use within such Apps (“In-App Purchases”). In-App Purchases that are consumed during the use of the App (for example, virtual gems) cannot be transferred among devices and can be downloaded only once. You must authenticate your account before making In-App Purchases – separate from any authentication to obtain other Content – by entering your password or using Touch ID or Face ID. You will be able to make additional In-App Purchases for fifteen (15) minutes without re-authenticating unless you have asked us to require a password for every purchase or have enabled Touch ID or Face ID. You can turn off the ability to make In-App Purchases by following these instructions: https://support. .com/HT201304.

    APP MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

      is responsible for providing maintenance and support for   Apps only, or as required under applicable law. App Providers are responsible for providing maintenance and support for Third Party Apps.

    APP BUNDLES

    Some Apps may be sold together as a bundle (“App Bundle”). The price displayed with an App Bundle is the price you will be charged upon purchasing the App Bundle. The App Bundle price may be reduced to account for Apps you have already purchased or acquired, but may include a minimum charge to complete the App Bundle.

    SEARCH RESULTS AND RANKINGS

    When determining how to order the Apps in search results, the main parameters considered are the metadata provided by App Providers, how customers have engaged with the Apps and the App Store, and the popularity of the Apps in the App Store. These main parameters deliver the most relevant results to customer search queries.

    LICENSED APPLICATION END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT

    Apps made available through the App Store are licensed, not sold, to you. Your license to each App is subject to your prior acceptance of either this Licensed Application End User License Agreement (“Standard EULA”), or a custom end user license agreement between you and the App Provider (“Custom EULA”), if one is provided. Your license to any   App under this Standard EULA or Custom EULA is granted by  , and your license to any Third Party App under this Standard EULA or Custom EULA is granted by the App Provider of that Third Party App. Any App that is subject to this Standard EULA is referred to herein as the “Licensed Application.” The App Provider or   as applicable (“Licensor”) reserves all rights in and to the Licensed Application not expressly granted to you under this Standard EULA.

    a. Scope of License: Licensor grants to you a nontransferable license to use the Licensed Application on any  -branded products that you own or control and as permitted by the Usage Rules. The terms of this Standard EULA will govern any content, materials, or services accessible from or purchased within the Licensed Application as well as upgrades provided by Licensor that replace or supplement the original Licensed Application, unless such upgrade is accompanied by a Custom EULA. Except as provided in the Usage Rules, you may not distribute or make the Licensed Application available over a network where it could be used by multiple devices at the same time. You may not transfer, redistribute or sublicense the Licensed Application except as expressly permitted in this Agreement and, if you sell your   Device to a third party, you must remove the Licensed Application from the   Device before doing so. You may not copy (except as permitted by this license and the Usage Rules), reverse-engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, modify, or create derivative works of the Licensed Application, any updates, or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent that any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law or to the extent as may be permitted by the licensing terms governing use of any open-sourced components included with the Licensed Application).

    b. Consent to Use of Data: You agree that Licensor may collect and use technical data and related information—including but not limited to technical information about your device, system and application software, and peripherals—that is gathered periodically to facilitate the provision of software updates, product support, and other services to you (if any) related to the Licensed Application. Licensor may use this information, as long as it is in a form that does not personally identify you, to improve its products or to provide services or technologies to you.

    c. Termination. This Standard EULA is effective until terminated by you or Licensor. Your rights under this Standard EULA will terminate automatically if you fail to comply with any of its terms.

    d. External Services. The Licensed Application may enable access to Licensor’s and/or third-party services and websites (collectively and individually, "External Services"). You agree to use the External Services at your sole risk. Licensor is not responsible for examining or evaluating the content or accuracy of any third-party External Services, and shall not be liable for any such third-party External Services. Data displayed by any Licensed Application or External Service, including but not limited to financial, medical and location information, is for general informational purposes only and is not guaranteed by Licensor or its agents. You will not use the External Services in any manner that is inconsistent with the terms of this Standard EULA or that infringes the intellectual property rights of Licensor or any third party. You agree not to use the External Services to harass, abuse, stalk, threaten or defame any person or entity, and that Licensor is not responsible for any such use. External Services may not be available in all languages or in your Home Country, and may not be appropriate or available for use in any particular location. To the extent you choose to use such External Services, you are solely responsible for compliance with any applicable laws. Licensor reserves the right to change, suspend, remove, disable or impose access restrictions or limits on any External Services at any time without notice or liability to you.

    e. WARRANTY: Licensor will use reasonable care and skill with respect to the provision of the Licensed Application and any External Services performed or provided by the Licensed Application to you. Licensor does not make any other promises or warranties about the External Services and in particular does not warrant that:

    (i) your use of the External Services will be uninterrupted or error-free;

    (ii) the External Services will be free from loss, corruption, attack, viruses, interference, hacking, or other security intrusion, and Licensor disclaims any liability relating thereto. You shall be responsible for backing up your own system, including any Licensed Application that is stored on your system.

    f. Limitation of Liability.

    (i) Except as set out in section (ii) hereunder, in no case shall Licensor, its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, agents, contractors, principals or licensors be liable for any loss or damage caused by Licensor, its employees or agents where:

    (1) there is no breach of a legal duty of care owed to you by Licensor or by any of its employees or agents;

    (2) it is not a reasonably foreseeable result of any such breach;

    (3) any increase in loss or damage results from breach by you of any term of this End User License Agreement ("Agreement");

    (4) it results from a decision by Licensor to warn you, to suspend or terminate your access to the External Services, or to take any other action during the investigation of a suspected violation or as a result of Licensor’s conclusion that a violation of this Agreement has occurred;

    (5) it relates to loss of income, business or profits, or any loss or corruption of data in connection with your use of the Licensed Application.

    (ii) Nothing in this Agreement removes or limits Licensor’s liability for fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct, or for death or personal injury caused by its negligence.

    g. You may not use or otherwise export or re-export the Licensed Application except as authorized by United States law and the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Licensed Application was obtained. In particular, but without limitation, the Licensed Application may not be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S.-embargoed countries or (b) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's Specially Designated Nationals List or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons List or Entity List. By using the Licensed Application, you represent and warrant that you are not located in any such country or on any such list. You also agree that you will not use these products for any purposes prohibited by United States law, including, without limitation, the development, design, manufacture, or production of nuclear, missile, or chemical or biological weapons.

    h. U.S. Government End Users. The Licensed Application and related documentation are "Commercial Items", as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. §2.101, consisting of "Commercial Computer Software" and "Commercial Computer Software Documentation", as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §227.7202, as applicable. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. §12.212 or 48 C.F.R. §227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, as applicable, the Commercial Computer Software and Commercial Computer Software Documentation are being licensed to U.S. Government end users (a) only as Commercial Items and (b) with only those rights as are granted to all other end users pursuant to the terms and conditions herein. Unpublished-rights reserved under the copyright laws of the United States.

    i. Except to the extent expressly provided in the following paragraph, this Agreement and the relationship between you and   shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, excluding its conflicts of law provisions. You and   agree to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located within the county of Santa Clara, California, to resolve any dispute or claim arising from this Agreement. If (a) you are not a U.S. citizen; (b) you do not reside in the U.S.; (c) you are not accessing the Service from the U.S.; and (d) you are a citizen of one of the countries identified below, you hereby agree that any dispute or claim arising from this Agreement shall be governed by the applicable law set forth below, without regard to any conflict of law provisions, and you hereby irrevocably submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located in the state, province or country identified below whose law governs:

    If you are a resident of any European Union country or the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway or Iceland, the governing law and forum shall be the laws and courts of your usual place of residence.

    Specifically excluded from application to this Agreement is that law known as the United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods.

    O. ADDITIONAL TERMS FOR APP STORE,    ,   PODCASTS, AND SELECT CONTENT

    Some Content available in App Store,    , and   Podcasts (including   Podcasts Subscriptions) are acquired by you from the third-party provider of such Content (as displayed on the product page and/or during the acquisition process for the relevant Content), not  . In such case,   acts as an agent for the Content provider in providing the Content to you, and therefore   is not a party to the Transaction between you and the Content provider. However, if you are a customer of   Distribution International Ltd., then   Distribution International Ltd. is the merchant of record for the Content you acquire, but such Content is licensed by the Content provider. The Content provider reserves the right to enforce the terms of use relating to such Content. The Content provider is solely responsible for such Content, any warranties to the extent that such warranties have not been disclaimed, and any claims that you or any other party may have relating to such Content.

    When determining how to order search results in App Store,    , and   Podcasts, the main parameters considered are the metadata given by Content providers and how customers have engaged with the Content.

    P. ADDITIONAL   MUSIC TERMS

    iCloud Music Library is an   Music feature that allows you to access your matched or uploaded songs, playlists and music videos acquired from   Music, the iTunes Store or another source (“iCloud Music Library Content”) on your   Music-enabled devices. iCloud Music Library is turned on automatically when you set up your   Music membership. iCloud Music Library collects information about your iCloud Music Library Content. This information is associated with your   ID, and compared to iCloud Music Library Content currently available on   Music. iCloud Music Library Content that is not matched is uploaded to  ’s iCloud Music Library servers (in a format determined by  ). You can upload up to one hundred thousand (100,000) songs. Songs acquired from the iTunes Store do not count against this limit. Songs that do not meet certain criteria (for example, excessively large files) or that are not authorized for your device are not eligible for iCloud Music Library. When you use iCloud Music Library,   logs information such as the tracks you play, stop or skip, the devices you use, and the time and duration of playback. You agree to use iCloud Music Library only for lawfully acquired content. iCloud Music Library is provided on an “AS IS” basis and could contain errors or inaccuracies. You should back up your data and information prior to using iCloud Music Library. If you are not an   Music member, you may purchase an iTunes Match subscription, which uses iCloud Music Library. When your   Music membership ends, you will lose access to your iCloud Music Library, including iCloud Music Library Content that is uploaded to iCloud Music Library servers.

    Q. ADDITIONAL   FITNESS+ TERMS

      Fitness+ is for entertainment and/or informational purposes only and is not intended to provide any medical advice. 

    R. CARRIER MEMBERSHIP

    Where available, you may be offered to purchase a Service membership from your wireless carrier (a “Carrier Membership”). If you purchase a Carrier Membership, your carrier is the merchant of record, which means that you acquire the Service license from your carrier, which will bill you for the cost of your Service membership, but the Service is licensed and provided by  . Your purchase relationship with the carrier is governed by the carrier’s terms and conditions, not this Agreement, and any billing disputes related to a Carrier Membership must be directed to your carrier, not  . By using a Service through a Carrier Membership, you agree that your carrier may exchange your carrier account information, telephone number and subscription information with  , and that   may use this information to determine the status of your Carrier Membership.

    S. MISCELLANEOUS TERMS APPLICABLE TO ALL SERVICES

    DEFINITION OF  

    Depending on your Home Country, “ ” means:

      Inc., located at One   Park Way, Cupertino, California, for users in the United States, including Puerto Rico;

      Canada Inc., located at 120 Bremner Blvd., Suite 1600, Toronto ON M5J 0A8, Canada for users in Canada;

      Services LATAM LLC, located at 1 Alhambra Plaza, Ste 700 Coral Gables, Florida, for users in Mexico, Central or South America, or any Caribbean country or territory (excluding Puerto Rico);

    iTunes K.K., located at Roppongi Hills, 6-10-1 Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106-6140, Tokyo for users in Japan;

      Pty Limited, located at Level 3, 20 Martin Place, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia, for users in Australia or New Zealand, including in any of their territories or affiliated jurisdictions; and

      Distribution International Ltd., located at Hollyhill Industrial Estate, Hollyhill, Cork, Republic of Ireland, for all other users.

    CONTRACT CHANGES

      reserves the right at any time to modify this Agreement and to add new or additional terms or conditions on your use of the Services. Such modifications and additional terms and conditions will be communicated to you and if accepted, will be effective immediately and will be incorporated into this Agreement. In the event you refuse to accept such changes,   will have the right to terminate the Agreement.

    THIRD-PARTY MATERIALS

      is not responsible or liable for third party materials included within or linked from the Content or the Services.

    USER SAFETY

    You shoul